Householders waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Householders waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop By Daily Mail Reporter Updated : 20:08 EST , 3 January 2012 5 View comment Householders waste 134million a year overcharge gadget such a mobile phone and laptop computer , accord to a study . One in five Britons leave their device plug in once the battery be full because they be scar of run out of power when they leave the house . But one in ten admit they be simply too lazy to pull the plug even though it cost them money . Power drain : UK homeowner be burn a staggering 134million every year by overcharging gadget such a laptop and mobile phone A massive nine in ten owner keep gadget on permanent charge , often unaware of the damage it could be do , energy firm E.ON find . Overcharging battery reduces their lifespan and increase household electricity bill by an average 60 per year . But a quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly . More ... Double whammy from green tax : One in three household could face fuel poverty and flight cost set to rise Bank profit tip to hit 35bn - 135m a day - and bonus to soar when result be reveal next month The most overcharged device be laptop computer , mobile phone and iPods at 43 per cent , 41 per cent and 10 per cent , respectively , the study find . But we also overcharge electric toothbrush , hand-held vacuum cleaner and cordless landline phone . GADGET CHARGING TIMES Mobile Phone - 2 hour Laptop , with Express Charge - 2 hour Hand-held vacuum cleaner - 3.5 hour Mp3 player - 4 hour Digital Camera - 2 hour People age 18 to 24 be the big perpetrator , be four time more likely to stay plugged-in than those age 55 and over . And a third of woman say they simply 'forget ' their device be plug in . Children be also add to energy bill , with 20 per cent of kid keep toy on regular charge . Pollyanna Woodward , a presenter on Channel 5 The Gadget Show , say people do not realise the harm overcharge can do . 'There be clearly a lot of confusion about whats good for our electronics and it be astonish that 90 per cent of people overcharge their gadget , ' she say . 'Overcharging a gadget can often do more harm than good . 'It can reduce the lifespan of battery but , more importantly , it also prevent people from make easy saving on their energy bill . 'By spending a few minute unplug ten common household gadget when they be fully charge could save around 60 a year . ' Wasteful : A quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly Just under half of Britons , 46 per cent , say they would remove their gadget from constant charge if they know money saving could be make . Emma Thompson , from E.ON , say : 'Were using more and more gadget in our daily life . 'Its crucial that we keep an eye on how much money and energy be waste keep them charge when we dont need to . 'It only take small step to get Energy Fit and make significant saving . 'For example , when you plug in a charger , think about how long it need to reach full charge , rather than just leave it on overnight . 'Generally mobile phone only take two hour to charge but most people leave them plug in overnight . 'By unplugging your gadget once theyre charge , youll be help to reduce your energy bill . ' Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 5 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . Enter search term : Search All Articles Share price Portfolio Newsletters Guides Savings rate Deals Calculators QUICK WAYS TO SAVE MONEY Credit card Cheaper insurance Savings account Best mortgage Cut your energy bill Current account Cheapest loan 12.50 share deal DO N'T MISS A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule If you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . Top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? Record peak cause uncertainty . Thousands of Britons lure by Cyprus property dream stung by Swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight The salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... But now saver be ask : Where be our miss pension million ? You 've hear the Footsie 's hit a record high . But what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! Jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise Buyers enjoy rock-bottom rate . The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place . I 've be bill 320 TWICE for my PPI claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ASK TONY . Is child trust fund misery about to end ? New rule allow switch to more flexible Junior Isas come into effect ? Yorkshire BS launch lead cash Isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . The best new car for 2015 From the Jaguar XE , to the MX-5 and the first ever right-hand drive Mustang If I want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? And will I earn more ? Also in this section News home page See all our late content 30 second guide City jargon in under a minute Tax advice News , guide , tip on pay less Free investment guide LATEST : 3 share Buffet would buy One to bookmark The money forum View the late post here Latest report from News Bank of England face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe Engineering the future : QinetiQ set for growth push under new chief Virgin Money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double Employees on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group Savers ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year Osborne hail 'major victory ' over Europe a Britain win landmark legal battle to protect Square Mile Bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place Legal & General profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt ITV dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the Downton Abbey broadcaster Bank of England chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say Mark Carney World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the chart again - and London do n't even make top ten Morrisons treasurer Paul Coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading MORE HEADLINES SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve Householders waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Householders waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop By Daily Mail Reporter Updated : 20:08 EST , 3 January 2012 5 View comment Householders waste 134million a year overcharge gadget such a mobile phone and laptop computer , accord to a study . One in five Britons leave their device plug in once the battery be full because they be scar of run out of power when they leave the house . But one in ten admit they be simply too lazy to pull the plug even though it cost them money . Power drain : UK homeowner be burn a staggering 134million every year by overcharging gadget such a laptop and mobile phone A massive nine in ten owner keep gadget on permanent charge , often unaware of the damage it could be do , energy firm E.ON find . Overcharging battery reduces their lifespan and increase household electricity bill by an average 60 per year . But a quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly . More ... Double whammy from green tax : One in three household could face fuel poverty and flight cost set to rise Bank profit tip to hit 35bn - 135m a day - and bonus to soar when result be reveal next month The most overcharged device be laptop computer , mobile phone and iPods at 43 per cent , 41 per cent and 10 per cent , respectively , the study find . But we also overcharge electric toothbrush , hand-held vacuum cleaner and cordless landline phone . GADGET CHARGING TIMES Mobile Phone - 2 hour Laptop , with Express Charge - 2 hour Hand-held vacuum cleaner - 3.5 hour Mp3 player - 4 hour Digital Camera - 2 hour People age 18 to 24 be the big perpetrator , be four time more likely to stay plugged-in than those age 55 and over . And a third of woman say they simply 'forget ' their device be plug in . Children be also add to energy bill , with 20 per cent of kid keep toy on regular charge . Pollyanna Woodward , a presenter on Channel 5 The Gadget Show , say people do not realise the harm overcharge can do . 'There be clearly a lot of confusion about whats good for our electronics and it be astonish that 90 per cent of people overcharge their gadget , ' she say . 'Overcharging a gadget can often do more harm than good . 'It can reduce the lifespan of battery but , more importantly , it also prevent people from make easy saving on their energy bill . 'By spending a few minute unplug ten common household gadget when they be fully charge could save around 60 a year . ' Wasteful : A quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly Just under half of Britons , 46 per cent , say they would remove their gadget from constant charge if they know money saving could be make . Emma Thompson , from E.ON , say : 'Were using more and more gadget in our daily life . 'Its crucial that we keep an eye on how much money and energy be waste keep them charge when we dont need to . 'It only take small step to get Energy Fit and make significant saving . 'For example , when you plug in a charger , think about how long it need to reach full charge , rather than just leave it on overnight . 'Generally mobile phone only take two hour to charge but most people leave them plug in overnight . 'By unplugging your gadget once theyre charge , youll be help to reduce your energy bill . ' Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 5 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . Enter search term : Search All Articles Share price Portfolio Newsletters Guides Savings rate Deals Calculators QUICK WAYS TO SAVE MONEY Credit card Cheaper insurance Savings account Best mortgage Cut your energy bill Current account Cheapest loan 12.50 share deal DO N'T MISS A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule If you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . Top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? Record peak cause uncertainty . Thousands of Britons lure by Cyprus property dream stung by Swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight The salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... But now saver be ask : Where be our miss pension million ? You 've hear the Footsie 's hit a record high . But what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! Jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise Buyers enjoy rock-bottom rate . The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place . I 've be bill 320 TWICE for my PPI claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ASK TONY . Is child trust fund misery about to end ? New rule allow switch to more flexible Junior Isas come into effect ? Yorkshire BS launch lead cash Isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . The best new car for 2015 From the Jaguar XE , to the MX-5 and the first ever right-hand drive Mustang If I want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? And will I earn more ? Also in this section News home page See all our late content 30 second guide City jargon in under a minute Tax advice News , guide , tip on pay less Free investment guide LATEST : 3 share Buffet would buy One to bookmark The money forum View the late post here Latest report from News Bank of England face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe Engineering the future : QinetiQ set for growth push under new chief Virgin Money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double Employees on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group Savers ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year Osborne hail 'major victory ' over Europe a Britain win landmark legal battle to protect Square Mile Bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place Legal & General profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt ITV dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the Downton Abbey broadcaster Bank of England chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say Mark Carney World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the chart again - and London do n't even make top ten Morrisons treasurer Paul Coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading MORE HEADLINES SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve Householders Money Markets Saving Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards Pensions Mortgages Experts Forums My Logout Login show Householders By Daily Updated 20:08 5 View comment Householders One device run But Power A Overcharging But More Double Bank The But GADGET Mobile Laptop Hand-held Mp3 Digital People And Children Pollyanna 'There 'Overcharging 'It 'By Wasteful Just Emma 'Its 'It 'For 'Generally 'By Share World Will The Pound Facing Going Fix SIMON Do A How Osborne MOST Previous Next householder waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop | this be money money home market save & bank invest bill car holiday card & loan pension mortgage & home expert forum my profile logout login show ad householder waste 134m on electricity every year overcharge mobile phone and laptop by daily mail reporter updated : 20:08 est , 3 january 2012 5 view comment householder waste 134million a year overcharge gadget such a mobile phone and laptop computer , accord to a study . one in five briton leave their device plug in once the battery be full because they be scar of run out of power when they leave the house . but one in ten admit they be simply too lazy to pull the plug even though it cost them money . power drain : uk homeowner be burn a staggering 134million every year by overcharging gadget such a laptop and mobile phone a massive nine in ten owner keep gadget on permanent charge , often unaware of the damage it could be do , energy firm e.on find . overcharge battery reduces their lifespan and increase household electricity bill by an average 60 per year . but a quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly . more ... double whammy from green tax : one in three household could face fuel poverty and flight cost set to rise bank profit tip to hit 35bn - 135m a day - and bonus to soar when result be reveal next month the most overcharged device be laptop computer , mobile phone and ipod at 43 per cent , 41 per cent and 10 per cent , respectively , the study find . but we also overcharge electric toothbrush , hand-held vacuum cleaner and cordless landline phone . gadget charging time mobile phone - 2 hour laptop , with express charge - 2 hour hand-held vacuum cleaner - 3.5 hour mp3 player - 4 hour digital camera - 2 hour people age 18 to 24 be the big perpetrator , be four time more likely to stay plugged-in than those age 55 and over . and a third of woman say they simply 'forget ' their device be plug in . child be also add to energy bill , with 20 per cent of kid keep toy on regular charge . pollyanna woodward , a presenter on channel 5 the gadget show , say people do not realise the harm overcharge can do . 'there be clearly a lot of confusion about whats good for our electronics and it be astonish that 90 per cent of people overcharge their gadget , ' she say . 'overcharging a gadget can often do more harm than good . 'it can reduce the lifespan of battery but , more importantly , it also prevent people from make easy saving on their energy bill . 'by spending a few minute unplug ten common household gadget when they be fully charge could save around 60 a year . ' wasteful : a quarter of u wrongly assume constantly charge our gadget keep them work properly just under half of briton , 46 per cent , say they would remove their gadget from constant charge if they know money saving could be make . emma thompson , from e.on , say : 'were using more and more gadget in our daily life . 'its crucial that we keep an eye on how much money and energy be waste keep them charge when we dont need to . 'it only take small step to get energy fit and make significant saving . 'for example , when you plug in a charger , think about how long it need to reach full charge , rather than just leave it on overnight . 'generally mobile phone only take two hour to charge but most people leave them plug in overnight . 'by unplugging your gadget once theyre charge , youll be help to reduce your energy bill . ' share or comment on this article world 's most expensive city reveal : singapore top the ... will you get the full state pension ? some 6.1m people could ... the best city in the world to work in ? vienna come top in ... pound now buy more than 1.38 a ecb 's bond-buying plan ... face up to my big nightmare : airasia ' s boss tony ... go at top speed : britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : nationwide unveils ... simon lambert : warren buffett on tesco , share be safer ... do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? why your ... a million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... how to be a diy landlord : what you need to know about go ... osborne sell uk 's 40 % stake in eurostar to overseas ... most read money previous next comment ( 5 ) share what you think newest oldest best rat worst rat view all the comment below have not be moderate . view all the view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of mailonline . we be no longer accept comment on this article . enter search term : search all article share price portfolio newsletter guide saving rate deal calculator quick way to save money credit card cheaper insurance saving account best mortgage cut your energy bill current account cheapest loan 12.50 share deal do n't miss a million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule if you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? record peak cause uncertainty . thousand of briton lure by cyprus property dream stung by swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight the salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... but now saver be ask : where be our miss pension million ? you 've hear the footsie 's hit a record high . but what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise buyer enjoy rock-bottom rate . the best city in the world to work in ? vienna come top in quality of living league - but london languish at 40th place . i 've be bill 320 twice for my ppi claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ask tony . be child trust fund misery about to end ? new rule allow switch to more flexible junior isas come into effect ? yorkshire b launch lead cash isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . the best new car for 2015 from the jaguar xe , to the mx-5 and the first ever right-hand drive mustang if i want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? and will i earn more ? also in this section news home page see all our late content 30 second guide city jargon in under a minute tax advice news , guide , tip on pay less free investment guide late : 3 share buffet would buy one to bookmark the money forum view the late post here late report from news bank of england face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe engineer the future : qinetiq set for growth push under new chief virgin money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double employee on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group saver ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year osborne hail 'major victory ' over europe a britain win landmark legal battle to protect square mile bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector the best city in the world to work in ? vienna come top in quality of living league - but london languish at 40th place legal & general profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide osborne sell uk 's 40 % stake in eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt itv dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the downton abbey broadcaster bank of england chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say mark carney world 's most expensive city reveal : singapore top the chart again - and london do n't even make top ten morrison treasurer paul coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading more headline share picture copy link to paste in your message find out more ... find out more ... money market save & bank invest bill car holiday card & loan pension mortgage & home expert forum sitemap archive video archive mobile apps r text-based site reader print our paper top of page daily mail mail on sunday this be network even standard this be money metro jobsite mail travel zoopla.co.uk prime location this be money be part of the daily mail , mail on sunday & metro medium group associated newspaper ltd contact u advertise with u term privacy policy & cooky ninemsn news sport finance lifestyle entertainment video travel more site about u career at ninemsn advertise with u contact u term of use privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn pty ltd - all right reserve 