Solar Accreditation - Purchasing your solar PV system Home About Installers Consumers Retailers Products Contact Sign In Clean Energy Council Installer Sign In Search Search for Main Content Solar Accreditation Home About Installers Consumers Retailers Products Contact Sub-navigation share Solar FAQ Purchasing solar PV How solar PV work Costs and saving Finding a solar retailer Government scheme Guide for household Guide for business After instal solar PV Find an installer Complaints and dispute Fires and flood Small-scale connection Home Consumers Purchasing solar PV share Purchasing your solar PV system More than a million home and business across Australia be use rooftop solar photovoltaic ( PV ) system to generate clean , safe and reliable electricity . If youre think about join them , there be a few thing to consider . Below be the step you should undertake when purchase and instal solar PV for your home . Each of the step be explain in more detail in our Guide to Installing Solar PV for Households . Businesses look to go solar will have slightly different consideration , which be outline in our Guide to Installing Solar PV for Business and Industry . Step 1 : Do your research Before purchase a solar PV system , it important to make sure the investment will be worth your while . That mean identify the best type and size of solar PV system for your property , a well a look into the government incentive available in your area . Find out more about the cost and saving of go solar . Step 2 : Contact your electricity retailer Not all electricity company offer solar-friendly policy . Youll want to contact your electricity retailer to find out : how solar will affect your current rate what sort of feed-in tariff they offer . A feed-in tariff be the amount an electricity retailer pay you for excess power generate by your solar panel . Our Guide to Installing Solar PV for Households includes a list of question to ask your electricity company . Step 3 : Find a solar PV retailer and plan your system Its important to shop around when buy solar . Before you select a system , talk to different solar PV retailer about your option and obtain several quote . You also want to make sure that the company you buy your system from be ethical , reliable and will be there if something go wrong . The best way to do this be by choosing a Clean Energy Council Approved Solar Retailer . Approved Solar Retailers follow industry best practice , use fully accredit installers and offer a minimum five-year guarantee on the entire system . Read more about find a solar retailer or view our list of Approved Solar Retailers . Step 4 : Sign a contract Once you have choose your system and accept a quote , your solar PV retailer , installer or designer will provide you with a contract . There be a few thing about the contract you should check before sign . Our Guide to Installing Solar PV for Households have all the detail . Step 5 : Install your solar PV system Your solar PV retailer or installer will install your system and provide you with all the necessary documentation . Remember to be eligible for government rebate , your system must be instal by a Clean Energy Council accredit installer . An Approved Solar Retailer will always use accredit installers . If youre not buy from an approve retailer , ask to see your installers accreditation card or ensure they be list on our find an installer page . Step 6 : Connect your solar PV system to the grid Your solar PV retailer will usually arrange for your solar system to be connect to the electricity network on your behalf . Grid connection process differ from state to state . Please refer to our small-scale connection page if you would like more information . Step 7 : Use and maintain your solar PV system Congratulations ! Your solar PV system be instal , and it time to start saving money on your power bill . To keep your system work efficiently and safely , youll need to make sure it be properly maintain . Find out more about what to do once your system be instal . Want more information ? For more detail on instal rooftop solar , download our free Guide to Installing Solar PV for Households or Guide to Installing Solar PV for Business and Industry . Solar PV guide for household The Clean Energy Council have publish a free guide to buying and instal solar photovoltaic ( PV ) panel for your home . More Solar PV guide for business Across Australia , business of all size be enjoy the benefit of go solar . We 've publish a free guide to help you do the same . More Warranties , complaint and dispute What should you do if you have an issue with your solar PV system or retailer ? More Have you be offer free solar ? The Clean Energy Council have hear report of company or individual contact customer to offer them a free home inspection or free solar panel . These company claim to be associate with the Clean Energy Council or the Australian Renewable Energy Agency ( ARENA ) . More Main Content solar accreditation - purchasing your solar pv system home about installers consumer retailer product contact sign in clean energy council installer sign in search search for main content solar accreditation home about installers consumer retailer product contact sub-navigation share solar faq purchase solar pv how solar pv work cost and saving find a solar retailer government scheme guide for household guide for business after instal solar pv find an installer complaint and dispute fire and flood small-scale connection home consumer purchase solar pv share purchase your solar pv system more than a million home and business across australia be use rooftop solar photovoltaic ( pv ) system to generate clean , safe and reliable electricity . if youre think about join them , there be a few thing to consider . below be the step you should undertake when purchase and instal solar pv for your home . each of the step be explain in more detail in our guide to installing solar pv for household . business look to go solar will have slightly different consideration , which be outline in our guide to installing solar pv for business and industry . step 1 : do your research before purchase a solar pv system , it important to make sure the investment will be worth your while . that mean identify the best type and size of solar pv system for your property , a well a look into the government incentive available in your area . find out more about the cost and saving of go solar . step 2 : contact your electricity retailer not all electricity company offer solar-friendly policy . youll want to contact your electricity retailer to find out : how solar will affect your current rate what sort of feed-in tariff they offer . a feed-in tariff be the amount an electricity retailer pay you for excess power generate by your solar panel . our guide to installing solar pv for household includes a list of question to ask your electricity company . step 3 : find a solar pv retailer and plan your system it important to shop around when buy solar . before you select a system , talk to different solar pv retailer about your option and obtain several quote . you also want to make sure that the company you buy your system from be ethical , reliable and will be there if something go wrong . the best way to do this be by choosing a clean energy council approved solar retailer . approve solar retailer follow industry best practice , use fully accredit installers and offer a minimum five-year guarantee on the entire system . read more about find a solar retailer or view our list of approved solar retailer . step 4 : sign a contract once you have choose your system and accept a quote , your solar pv retailer , installer or designer will provide you with a contract . there be a few thing about the contract you should check before sign . our guide to installing solar pv for household have all the detail . step 5 : install your solar pv system your solar pv retailer or installer will install your system and provide you with all the necessary documentation . remember to be eligible for government rebate , your system must be instal by a clean energy council accredit installer . an approve solar retailer will always use accredit installers . if youre not buy from an approve retailer , ask to see your installers accreditation card or ensure they be list on our find an installer page . step 6 : connect your solar pv system to the grid your solar pv retailer will usually arrange for your solar system to be connect to the electricity network on your behalf . grid connection process differ from state to state . please refer to our small-scale connection page if you would like more information . step 7 : use and maintain your solar pv system congratulation ! your solar pv system be instal , and it time to start saving money on your power bill . to keep your system work efficiently and safely , youll need to make sure it be properly maintain . find out more about what to do once your system be instal . want more information ? for more detail on instal rooftop solar , download our free guide to installing solar pv for household or guide to installing solar pv for business and industry . solar pv guide for household the clean energy council have publish a free guide to buying and instal solar photovoltaic ( pv ) panel for your home . more solar pv guide for business across australia , business of all size be enjoy the benefit of go solar . we 've publish a free guide to help you do the same . more warranty , complaint and dispute what should you do if you have an issue with your solar pv system or retailer ? more have you be offer free solar ? the clean energy council have hear report of company or individual contact customer to offer them a free home inspection or free solar panel . these company claim to be associate with the clean energy council or the australian renewable energy agency ( arena ) . more main content 