Penelec FirstEnergy Corp . FirstEnergy Home | Careers | Contact Us | Log In Log Out Home My Account View My Bill Pay My Bill View Payment History Payment & Billing Options View Bill Inserts Manage My Account Submit Meter Reading Service Requests Start Service ( Move In ) Stop Service ( Move Out ) Report Tree Problem Report Lighting Problem Request Electrical Work Customer Choice Ohio Pennsylvania New Jersey West Virginia Maryland New York Outages Report Power Outage View Current Outages Report Lighting Problem Safety Downed Power Lines Safety in the Home High Voltage Info Maintaining Trees Using Backup Generators Save Energy Ohio Pennsylvania New Jersey West Virginia Maryland Products Save Time Save Money Improve Your Home Protect Your Home Help Manage My Account Billing & Payments Making Service Requests Outages Safety Saving Energy Useful Brochures & Forms Communication Tools Help Managing My Account Billing & Payments Billing & Payment Options About Your Bill Meter Reading Rates and Tariffs Credit Policy Bill Inserts Bill Explanation of Terms Assistance & Service Programs Ohio Edison The Illuminating Company Toledo Edison Met-Ed Penelec Penn Power West Penn Power Jersey Central Power & Light Mon Power Potomac Edison West Virginia Potomac Edison Maryland Protection from Abuse Order ( PFA ) Making Service Requests Outages Safety Saving Energy Communication Tools Pennsylvania Smart Meters Contact Center Useful Brochures & Forms Help Billing & Payments Assistance & Service Programs Penelec Penelec Assistance & Service Programs Do you need help with your electric bill ? Review these program for the solution that work best for you : Convenient way to pay your bill Help pay your bill Special assistance program - medical need , notification , weatherization and education Bill Insert - VIP - Very Important Programs Convenient way to pay your bill We offer a variety of convenient bill and payment option , include the follow program . Reviewthis website or contact u for more information : Online Bill Payment You can pay your electric bill anytimeon our website at www.penelec.com . Just register your account and follow the prompt . Your payment be safe , secure , and convenient . ChecklessPayment Plan Our Checkless Payment Plan automatically deduct your payment from your checking or saving account every month.You do n't have to worry about write check , buy stamp , orlosing your payment in the mail . Learn more about our Checkless Payment Plan . Equal Payment Plan Our Equal Payment Plan ( EPP ) offer you the convenience of make consistent monthly payment and avoid the normal seasonal high and low in your electric bill . As an EPP customer , each month you be bill one-twelfth of your annual estimate usage.Your account will be review quarterly to determine if your payment amount should change to good reflect your actual usage.If the review result in a change to the EPP amount , you will get a message on your bill advise you of the new amount , which will become effective the follow month . On the twelfth month of your payment plan year - your anniversary month - your amount due may be high or low than your usual EPP amount in order to bring your balance for the year to zero . Then your account be review to ensure the appropriate payment amount for the new plan year . There isno charge to be an EPP customer , butif you decide to return to standard billing , contact u via our web form or call u . Click here to learn more about the Equal Payment Plan Extended Due Date If you be at least 60 year old and receive a Social Security or pension check , or if you receive disability assistance , and your electric bill be usually due just before your monthly benefit check come , we can extend your payment due date until after your check arrives . Extended Payment Plan If condition make it difficult to pay your electric bill on time , we can arrange an extended payment plan . This maintain service while you make payment more suited to your financial situation . Military Deferred Payment Program 1-800-962-4848 This program be design to assist customer who be have financial difficulty because their family member have be call to active military duty . Customers participate in the program may elect to defer pay either all or part of their monthly electric bill . When the family member in the military service return home , the account will be review to determine payment arrangement for the balance owe . Customers who have switch to an alternative generation supplier may defer the charge pay to their supplier only if that supplier offer a defer payment program . If a supplier do not offer a defer payment program , the supplier charge must be pay each month . Help pay your bill Call the number associate with each of the following program for further information : Customer Assistance Program 1-800-545-7741 CAP help residential customer maintain electric service and eliminate their past-due balance . CAP offer a reduce bill that be base on a percentage of income and debt forgiveness . Debt forgiveness credit be apply directly to participant ' electric service account in recognition of payment that be make on time and pay in-full . The goal of CAP be to : Improve ability to make a payment Reduce consumption of electricity ( eligible CAP customer must participate in WARM ) Reduce electric account debt CAP be administer by Human Services staff member and community-based organization . There be household income requirement and other program qualification . Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program ( LIHEAP ) . LIHEAP be a federally fund grant program administer by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania through it network of local county assistance office . LIHEAP provide customer help with pay winter heating bill , and occasionally summer cool bill . LIHEAP fund may be use to pay an electric bill even if electricity be not the main source of heat . There be household income requirement for this program . LIHEAP have two component : CASH provides a cash payment directly to the utility , to be apply toward bill reduction if certain guideline be meet . CRISIS provides a grant to help avoid shut off of electric service , which result from over-due bill . This grant also can be use to restore service shut off during the winter month . Customer Assistance & Referral Evaluation Services Program 1-800-207-9276 CARES provide assistance on a short-term basis to payment-troubled residential customer . Based upon the circumstance , company CARES representatives make referral to social agency and provide information on appropriate company and/or external program . CARES be open to : Any customer 60 year of age or over A handicap or disable person A seriously ill person A family with a seriously ill family member who reside in the household . Dollar Energy Fund www.dollarenergy.org or 1-888-282-6816 The Dollar Energy Fund be an emergency hardship fund design to help residential customer who have suffer a recent financial hardship and need temporary help in pay their electric bill . Program funding be provide byPenelec customer , company employee , and FirstEnergy shareholder . The distribution of fund be administer by community-based organization throughout thePenelec service territory . To make a contribution to the Dollar Energy Fund , please complete and return this contribution form ( pdf ) . To view and print this form , you need Adobe Acrobat Reader . Click here to download this free software . Special assistance program - medical need , notification , weatherization and education Contact u for information about the following program : Critical Customer Care Program . The Critical Customer Care Program identifies customer who use certain electrically operate life sustaining medical equipment in their home . The program help customer - for whom a service interruption could be immediately life threaten , or would make operation of necessary medical or life support equipment impossible or impractical - prepare for plan and unplanned power outage . Please call u if someone in your home us this type of medical equipment . Medical Certification . Customers with severe health problem may have a license physician certify in writing that a termination of electric service would be especially dangerous . The medical certification will postpone the termination of electric service for 30 day . The certification be design to provide the customer with additional time to pay their past-due balance . The customer be still responsible for the past-due amount and will be give the opportunity to pay the balance in monthly installment . Third Party Notification Select a third party ( a friend , relative , clergy , or social service agency ) to be notify , along with yourself , if your electric service be about to be disconnect . The third party be not obligate to pay overdue bill , but can remind you of pending disconnection and help you make payment arrangement . WARM Program 1-800-207-9276 WARM be an energy conservation program forPenelec 's low-income residential customer in Pennsylvania . The objective of the program be to help customer save energy and money by reducing their energy consumption . This be do by installing energy-saving home improvement in the home and by educating family member on way to low their electric usage . No payment be require for these installations/services . Penelec work with community-based organization and energy conservation contractor to provide these WARM Program service at no additional cost to eligible participant . There be household income requirement and other program qualification . Click here for more information and an application . Last Modified : October 7 , 2014 FirstEnergy Home Our Electric Companies Privacy & Legal Statement Web Terms of Use My Account View My Bill Pay My Bill Manage My Account Billing & Payment Options Assistance & Service Programs Submit Meter Reading Service Requests Start Services ( Move In ) Stop Services ( Move Out ) Report Tree Problem Report Lighting Problem Request Electrical Work Products Save Time Save Money Improve Your Home Protect Your Home Get Help Contact Us Mobile Tools & Social Media Site Map 2015 FirstEnergy Corp . 