Best Solar Panels 2015 : Roof Panels for Homes MENU FOLLOW Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Add Google+ Circles Space Animals Health Planet Earth Tech Human Nature History Strange News Video Image Albums Infographics Countdowns View Full Site Best Solar Panels for Homes By Stephanie Pappas , Senior Writer Date : 05 February 2015 Time : 03:29 PM ET Tweet Contractors install solar panel on a residential roof . CREDIT : Dennis Schroeder , NREL . Solar panel promise to low your electricity bill by supplementing the energy you buy from the local power company . But choose and instal solar panel can be an overwhelming task . Solar cell , which be link together in a panel , convert sunlight into electricity via photovoltaic material , such a silicon . When sunlight hit these material , the light 's energy be absorb , and that energy cause electron within the material to escape from their position in the atom of silicon or other photovoltaic material . These release electron be capture to produce an electric current . As of the third quarter of 2014 , more than 17,500 megawatt of cumulative solar electric capacity be operate in the United States , which be enough to power more than 3.5 million average American home , accord to the Solar Energy Industries Association . Residential solar panel be the fastest-growing category , with 58 percent growth during the quarter , the association report . How much you save by use solar panel depends on your local weather they 're a good deal in sunny Denver than dreary Seattle and how much electricity cost in your area . `` There be many system that make great economic sense today , and these be the type of system that be be instal in large number , '' say Tommy Cleveland , a solar energy engineer at the North Carolina State University Solar Center . `` They be primarily in location with expensive electricity rate , make the energy produce by solar system very valuable . '' If you make the leap , however , it pay to get the right kind of panel . Our sister site , Top Ten Reviews , conduct in-depth review of solar panel technology . Here be their top three recommendation for this green technology . ********************** # 1 Kyocera KD315GX-LPB The Kyocera KD315GX-LPB solar panel get top mark for it high solar efficiency , which be the amount of energy convert from sunlight per unit of surface area in the panel . At 16 percent , this solar panel be not the most efficient on the market , but it rank high . ( Silicon-based solar cell like this one usually operate at an efficiency of 18 percent or low , accord to the University of Pennsylvania . ) The Kyocera KD315GX-LPB panel be also durable and come with a complete five-year warranty . The company guarantee that the panel ' power output will remain at 80 percent of the minimum power promise by manufacturer for at least 20 year . The panel meet industry standard for withstand load ( it can hold up under 113 pound per square foot of pressure from snow or ice on the roof ) and can handle a beating by hailstone with a 1-inch diameter in wind of up to 51 mph . Ease of use : As with any solar panel array , you 'll need to check your local regulation and permit requirement before instal . You can mount Kyocera solar panel yourself if you 're handy enough and if your local law allow it . Experts advise against do so unless you really know what you 're do , however . `` It be best to get a professional installer to install them , '' Cleveland tell Live Science . `` There be serious danger work with electricity , so someone not properly train to install a system can easily get hurt or kill . '' A few note on choose an installer : The U.S. Department of Energy recommends approach this step with care . Home owner should ask potential contractor about their level of experience instal both on-grid and off-grid photovoltaic system . Most home owner will want on-grid installation , mean your solar system be interconnect with the local power grid . Be sure the contractor you hire be license and certify , and that there be no legal complaint against them . Your state electrical board and the Better Business Bureau be good resource for finding this out . The Kyocera panel be easy to maintain , require only occasional cleaning with water and mild detergent and an annual check of the connection and hardware . Help and support : The company provide answer to frequently ask question on it website and will respond to individual query by phone and email . There be no online live chat option for support , a downside of this brand . Cost : For a complete and up-to-date cost comparison , see Top Ten Reviews ' comparison tool . # 2 Canadian Solar CS6X-305M Founded in 2001 , Canadian solar offer it panel in 50 country around the globe . The company 's Canadian Solar CS6X-305M model take second place in the Top Ten Reviews ranking for power , durability and visual appeal . The panel ' shape be more rectangular than Kyocera 's offering , which may appeal to some homeowner . The efficiency of these panel be rat at 15.9 percent , barely behind the No . 1 Kyocera model . The Canadian panel also meet industry standard for durability and be able to handle up to 113 pound of snow per square foot . The warranty guarantee 95 percent output for one year , and 80 percent output for 25 year . Ease of use : Though the installation of this model be not significantly different than that for other solar panel , the model be advertise as self-washing . That mean that with a sufficient roof angle , rain will keep dirt and dust off the solar panel surface . However , owner may still need to take a sponge and soapy water to the panel on occasion if they get particularly dirty . Help and support : Canada Solar offer support by phone and by email , and the company 's website include some information on frequently ask question . There be no live chat or blog , make the company slightly hard to reach than competitor . Canada Solar offer a 10-year warranty on material and workmanship . Cost : For a complete and up-to-date cost comparison , see Top Ten Reviews ' comparison tool . # 3 Grape Solar 390W Grape Solar be a Eugene , Oregon-based company found in 2009 . It make solar panel , largely manufacture in Asia but assemble in the United States . The Grape Solar 390W panel have an efficiency percentage of 15.21 , a solid number , and can handle 50 pound of snow per square foot . The warranty promise 90-percent power output for 10 year and 80-percent output for 25 year . Grape work with Costco and Home Depot and have a network of installers throughout the United States . Ease of use : These solar panel can be clean with just water , no soap necessary . Top Ten Reviews rat Grape Solar 's phone-based customer service a `` first rate . '' You can also contact the company via email or get in touch with the it technical team through a customer hotline . Cost : For a complete and up-to-date cost comparison , see Top Ten Reviews ' comparison tool . Follow Stephanie Pappas on Twitter and Google+ . Follow u @ livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Tweet Images : Cross-Country Flight in a Solar-Powered Plane Readers Pick : Top 10 Alternative Energy Bets The Reality of Climate Change : 10 Myths Busted Most Popular 