Which be more energy efficient - boil water use an electric kettle , a kettle on a gas hob or a microwave oven ? | Notes and Queries | guardian.co.uk Skip to main content Sign in Register Go to : Guardian Unlimited home UK news World news Comment be free blog Sport blog Arts & entertainment blog Podcasts In picture Video -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Archive search Arts and entertainment Books Business EducationGuardian.co.uk Environment Film Football Jobs Katine appeal Life and style MediaGuardian.co.uk Money Music The Observer Politics Science Shopping SocietyGuardian.co.uk Sport Talk Technology Travel Been there -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Audio Email service Special report The Guardian The northerner The wrap -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Advertising guide Compare finance product Crossword Feedback Garden centre GNM press office Graduate Guardian Bookshop GuardianEcostore GuardianFilms Headline service Help / contact Information Living our value Newsroom Notes & Queries Reader Offers Soulmates date Style guide Syndication service Travel offer TV listing Weather Web guide Working for u -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Guardian Abroad Guardian Weekly Money Observer Public Learn Guardian back issue Observer back issue Guardian Professional News Sport Comment Culture Business Money Life & style Travel Environment TV Video Data Mobile Offers Jobs News Guardian Home Recentqueries Sendaquery Crossword Luckydip Anyanswers ? AboutNotesandQueries Sudoku Categories Nooks and cranny Yesteryear Semantic enigma The body beautiful Red tape , white lie Speculative science This sceptred isle Root of all evil Ethical conundrum This sporting life Stage and screen Birds and the bee SPECULATIVE SCIENCE Which be more energy efficient - boil water use an electric kettle , a kettle on a gas hob or a microwave oven ? IT TAKES the same amount of energy to heat one litre of water no matter which method of heating use . The only difference in the method be the amount of time each take . However , the eletric kettle may prove to be a little more efficient on the basis that when the water have fully boil it switch itself off , the other method require a watchful eye to stop the power when the water have boil . Ben Hendy , Bournemouth ( u9700219 @ bournemouth.ac.uk ) UNFORTUNATELY , not all the energy apply go into the water . A kettle heat itself a well a the water in it , and some of that heat be conducted/radiated away a the kettle be bring to the boil . Microwaves be design specifically for heating water ( in food ) so the microwave energy heat nothing but water . The imponderable be how efficient the microwave machine be at convert electricity into microwave energy . No doubt manufacturer make different claim about this . Arthur Wardell , Halifax , ( awardell @ legend.co.uk ) THE KETTLE on a gas hob , because gas be a primary energy source . Electricity be generate by burning gas or coal in a power station at somewhere between 30 % and 50 % efficiency . Heating by microwave , generate from electricity , be even more inefficient . John Ackers , Islington Friends of the Earth , London N5 . HAVING conduct out some test in the kitchen use the three implement the efficiency rating be : 1st kettle , 2nd microwave , 3rd gas , base on efficiency of the energy enter your house . However the overall efficiency would have gas in first place due to the loss of 50 % 70 % incur in the generation of electricity from it base fuel . Matthew Guite , Staines , Middx ( matthew.guite @ jpkenny.com ) TO BOIL a give quantity of water from room temperature will require the same amount of energy whatever the source . Inefficiency in the form of energy loss will arise from heating the container , surround item , ie . gas hob support , kitchen work top and the surrounding air . Insofar a the microwave oven heat only the water and indirectly the container and a limited amount of air while provide a modeslty insulate environment , this will incur less heat loss than the other method and so should be the more efficient . However , a more thorough analysis should consider the efficiency of the energy supply process and on this basis possibly the gas hob may be more energy efficient give that power station be only about 30 % efficent in converting primary fuel to electricity , whereas energy loss in supply natural gas will be somewhat less and incur in the transmission of the gas to consumer . David Bridgewater , Pershore , Worcs . ( David.Bridgewater @ btinternet.com ) 'One accurate measurement be worth a thousand expert opinion Grace Murray Hopper Using a plug in power meter I have measure the efficiency of boil 1 litre of water in a two type of kettle ( stainless steel and plastic ) and a microwave . I have also measure the gas use to boil a pan of water on my gas hob . The sum be the sort you learn for GCSE science . Kettles ; 65 % Microwave : 30 % Gas kettle : 25 % You have to remember that gas be about a third the cost of electricity per kWh ( or Unit or Joule ) and also have a third of the CO2 emission . In this test gas have a small advantage , which may be improve with a light more efficient kettle . The electric kettle have the advantage that it turn itself off automatically . While the microwave be inefficient bringing water to the boil , it be more efficient when only warm it to 50 degree C at 45 % . Andy Brown , Cambridge UK Tested the system base on 600mls of water use a 1.2kw microwave rat at 800w output . It take 8 min 40 second to bring to the boil . The kettle take 4 min 16 second adjust for the same kw output . Microwave be only 60 % efficent in use energy relative to what energy go in and the microwave that come out . Typically be be operate at about half the efficiency in my kitchen relative to boiling water in a kettle . The kettle win out . However if I be compare with an oven for conventional cooking the small size may offer some advantage over heating the large bulk of a conventional oven . Microwaves can heat food effectively from the inside and so dont have to wait for their surroundings to heat up . Therefore dont boil water with microwave but do consider them if you like rubbery poorly brown food . tony price , mouldsworth england Informative discussion . The amount of gas require varies considerably : In particular the kettle design . Our trendy design ( wife 's choice ) kettle loses flame heat around the side to heat the room a well a the water . Its dark green colour re-radiates and waste a lot of heat . The flame height have a lot of effect . Too low and the heat in-heat waste will balance and go nowhere . Too high and the flame just miss most of the metal body . An old kettle of my mother 's have a skirt around the bottom that held more of the flame in contact with the base and prevent it skirt up the side . It appear to boil quite quickly . Of course , only boil what you need . Alan Strickland , Adelaide , Australia During Winter in a caravan , gas hob kettle win hand down , because the omit heat warms up the surrounding area in time for your first cup of tea ! Andrew Vaughan , Tickhill , United Kingdom Following from a comment above about the efficiency of the microwave oven , if it be 60 % efficient where be all the waste energy go ? The electric do n't get very warm , nor do the case , there be little light or noise emit so be the first law of thermodynamics wrong ? Ian , Nuneaton Warwickshire If you take into account the efficiency of get the power to you from source , which you should , John Ackers have it exactly right - a gas be a primary energy source it be definitely the most efficient . Klina Jordan , Oxford UK Greenest and cheap ( for Adelaide ) method be gas cooktop a it use the primary energy , even though the heating efficiency be low compare to others . Next option would be microwave a it heat up only water . Next option would be an electric kettle a it have low heat loss . Induction cooktop be also good option . Never use electric cooktop . Ramadas , Adelaide Australia Again , heating of 1 litre of water from 20oC 100oC need 330kJ ( 0.091kWh ) of heat . All these method provide the this amount of heat to water . If you look the kettle which will have about 90 % effciency , require 0.183kWh of electricty . Mircowave have about 66 % effciency require 0.139 kWhr of electricity . The natural gas cook to have about 50 % efficency , so they require 660kJ ( 0.183kWh ) . But cost wise the order be different . For Adelaide tarrif rate , gas be come a chepaest with 1 cent where a 3.4 and 4.7 cent for kettle and microwave . If you look at the CO2 emission , it can be estimate a 33 , 88 and 112 gram of CO2 for gas and kettle and microwave . In total , Gas be the winner , runner-up be kettle . Stop , another challenger , Inducction cookop ... may come 2nd ... not the winner ! ! Ramadas , Adelaide Australia After a quick test just between the electric kettle and the microwave . I find there to be no insignificant difference between them . My kettle input be 3000W My microwave input be 1400W So use 100ml at the same starting temperature . I put the microwave water in a small plastic sealed container . I also take the glass dish out of the microwave . I start the microwave on high for 60 sec , and then the kettle at 30 sec . At the end the water be approx the same temperature . I be not able to test the gas hob a I have no way of measure the amount of gas use . How would anyone do that ? Andy Walsh , Preston United Kingdom In response to Ian from Nuneaton . The energy loss in a microwave be from heat generate from the magnetron , the AC power transformer , the light , the motor drive for the turntable , the control circuitry and the fan to dissipate aforementioned heat . This account for 35 to 40 % energy loss . John Shaw , Buxted England In my test at home , the microwave require 1650W input for 120 second , but the electric kettle require 2000W for 145 second to produce boil water for a cup of tea . In my case the electric kettle be less efficient for make a single cup ( which be my primary use ) . This be because the kettle require a minimum fill of 500ml of water and I only need around 350ml . Richard Hertz , Upton USA This experiment be do on the NSW Central Coast 20th July 2013 . Any costing refers to NSW value . To boil 1 litre of water in a Circulon kettle on an Ariston gas cooktop take 5mins 5secs and use 0.019cu.metres gas . 1cu.metre=39.3547MJ and 1MJ= $ 0.02967 . COST 0.019x39.3547x0.02967=2.22cents . To boil 1 litre of water in a Russell Hobbs electric jug take 2mins 45secs and use 0.112kWh electric . 1kWh=53.592cents Peak 1kWh=21.842cents Shoulder 1kWh=13.42cents Off Peak Peak 7am-9am , 5pm-9pm Shoulder 9am-5pm , 9pm-10pm Off Peak 10pm-7am COST 0.112x53.592=6cents Peak 0.112x21.842=2.45cents Shoulder 0.112x13.42=1.503cents Off Peak Therefore in NSW it be cheap to boil water by gas unless you feel like get up in the middle of the night . Although Shoulder period electricity be only marginally more expensive than gas a work couple would be mainly boil their water during the Peak period . Barry Shearman , Woongarrah Australia Kettle on top of wood burner if burner on anyway . Another tip with electric , do n't keep re boiling the kettle if it go off the boil . You wo n't have to let your tea cool , you wo n't burn the tea/coffee , it 'll still brew and taste lush and be at perfect temp . Peace . X Neal , Hereford , England My priority for boiling a kettle be how little noise it make , not how fast it boil or how efficient it be . Gas win hand down . Most electrical appliance be build to achieve a low selling price , which in most case mean a high noise level . A gas kettle be so quiet , why be everyone in so much of a hurry , chill out , relax and have a cup of tea ! John Smith , Rotherham , Great Britain Based on the above answer and example , to boil 1 litre of water from 20C to 100C , require 0.183 kWh of either electricity or gas , at today energy price GAS be 68 % cheaper than electricity . Randy Robinson , Leominster , UK Add your answer Privacy policy | Terms & condition | Advertising guide | A-Z index | Inside guardian.co.uk | About this site Join our dating site today guardian.co.uk Guardian News and Media Limited 2011 