Carbon Tax Impact On Power , Utility Bill Rises Skip to navigation Skip to content Help use this website - Accessibility statement JavaScript disable . Please enable JavaScript to use My News , My Clippings , My Comments and user setting . My News My Clippings My Comments Sign-up Log in Learn More Personalise your news , save article to read late and customise setting If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . 8:02AM Friday Mar 6 , 2015 1380 ( 0 ) online now Do you know more about a story ? contact u Close Provide detail information , include contact detail ( if relevant ) Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Newsletters Fairfax Media Network More Close News & Weather smh.com.au theage.com.au brisbanetimes.com.au canberratimes.com.au nationaltimes.com.au watoday.com.au weatherzone.com.au Business & Finance businessday.com.au brw.com.au afr.com afrmagazine.com.au smartinvestor.com.au investsmart.com.au Lifestyle life & style dailylife.com.au thevine.com.au essentialbaby.com.au essentialkids.com.au findababysitter.com.au goodfood.com.au Classifieds domain.com.au drive.com.au adzuna.com.au rsvp.com.au stayz.com.au Advertise with u Newsletters Full list of site About Fairfax Media Privacy Terms & Conditions WA Today WA News WA News WA Video About Town Perth Traffic West Coast Eagles Fremantle Dockers Western Force You be here : Home WA News Search watoday : Search in : WA News watoday.com.au Web WA News Carbon tax to more than double electricity price hike Date July 11 , 2011 ( 29 ) Comments 21 Read late Aja Styles Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Julia Gillard delivers the carbon tax package in Canberra yesterday , flank by Treasurer Wayne Swan ( leave ) and Climate Change Minister Greg Combet . Photo : Bloomberg West Australian family will have to pay a predict 13 per cent rise in the cost of electricity a of next year , after the introduction of the new carbon tax . Premier Colin Barnett have warn the state government could not afford to absorb the new tax , which will see power bill rise an extra 8 per cent , or $ 115 a year , on top of the 5 per cent hike already budget . The state be not in a position to absorb Julia Gillard 's carbon tax , so that will flow directly to consumer . The scheme , which will come into effect from July 1 next year , show that the average hit to household will be $ 9.90 a week , or $ 515 a year , base on electricity rise by $ 3.30 a week , gas by $ 1.50 a week and food bill by an average 80 cent a week . Colin Barnett have foreshadow even high power bill rise after the carbon tax be increase . The average assistance will be $ 10.10 a week , or $ 525 a year , in which 60 per cent of earner will receive an annual tax cut of at least $ 300 , or about $ 6 a week . The tax cut will operate by lifting the tax-free threshold from $ 6000 to $ 18,200 on July 1 , 2012 , and to $ 19,400 in 2015 . Advertisement Mr Barnett say he take responsibility for the price increase that have begin since he take office in mid-2008 , with a predict overall hike of $ 1000 to consumer by the end of his first term . But he say the tax do not form part of the state 's cost-recovery plan for the generation and distribution of energy . `` The extra $ 200-250 million cost to ( power generator ) Verve will be a direct impact on the cost of electricity to consumer , '' he say . `` The state be not in a position to absorb Julia Gillard 's carbon tax , so that will flow directly to consumer . I be sorry about that but that be the decision that Julia Gillard make . `` I take full responsibility for the increase in price that the state government impose . Those rise in price , a unpopular a they be , be necessary to cover the cost in actually produce and distribute electricity . `` The carbon tax impose today will not do anything to meet the cost of produce and distribute electricity . So this be just a tax , it 's not pay for the service . '' Mr Barnett say while he welcome a tax-free threshold for middle-income earner rise from around $ 6000 to $ 18,000 , he believe the majority of the population , include pensioner , would eventually feel the pinch . He want more direct measure like funding for public transport , such a the state 's propose light-rail link to the northern suburb , and encourage the conversion to gas , rather than compensate coal-centric state on the east coast . `` Simple policy , mandate at least half to three-quarters of new power generation in Australia ( be convert ) to natural gas , that will do more to reduce emission , '' he say . He deny that the eastern state do not have enough gas to make the switch and go a far a to say that it could be transport from WA to the east . `` Why not transport it a liquefied natural gas from the west to the east ? '' he say . `` If the rest of the world can buy our clean gas energy , why ca n't the rest of Australia ? '' He say renewable energy use in Western Australia have reach it limit and gas be the only real solution . Mr Barnett also hold concern for generate more wealth in the state through the expansion of the mining sector ' program to include more processing plant base locally rather than offshore . `` If I look forward , I be very concern what we be try to do in this state be get more value add to our natural resource , more process and the like . Now process of mineral be , by it nature , energy-intensive , '' he say . `` This will make it less likely for investment to take place in mineral processing . It will also make it less likely for investment to take place and for success in local content ; high production of material ; and more local content in major engineering project because , by it nature , that be also energy-intensive . So I think that will be damage to Western Australian industry , particularly the mining sector . '' Miners threaten to move offshore His fear be largely confirm by Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western Australia acting director James Edwards , who say it member would examine go offshore in order to remain competitive on a global stage . `` The resource sector acknowledges that sustain global action be require to reduce the scale of human-induced climate change , but the legislation release by the Prime Minister today expose the industry and reduces our international competitiveness , '' he say yesterday . `` Australia 's ability to avoid serious economic downturn during the Global Financial Crisis be largely due to the strength of the mining and resource sector . The carbon tax and the propose Minerals Resources Rent Tax put this strength at risk . '' He say small mining group would be the bad affect by the tax . Criticism 'hypocritical' Opposition leader Eric Ripper have hit back at Mr Barnett 's comment , call him a `` hypocrite '' . `` He personally support a price on carbon and an emission trade scheme in 2009 when Malcolm Turnbull be support such a scheme , '' Mr Ripper say . `` And the second thing be his concern about the impact of cost increase on WA family when he 's increase electricity price by 50 per cent since he come to power and water price by 45 per cent . `` It 's very rich for him to complain about the impact on family when they be be compensate by federal measure while at the same time there be no compensation for his state measure . '' He say while Mr Barnett criticise the scheme for be east-coast centric due assistance to the coal and steel industry , he `` do not note that there be assistance to the LNG industry and the alumina industry which be West Australian industries '' . `` The big impact on living standard in WA have be Mr Barnett 's increase in utility cost and the big problem we get in this state be that many Western Australians be not benefit from the resource boom that be occur , '' he say , Tax relief welcome The Western Australian Council of Social Services have welcome compensation for low-income earner through tax cut and increase to pension but say there also need to be additional target program to support individual household . `` However we know that every household be different and for some home with great consumption pressure , the monetary assistance alone may not be enough and those individual and family will need to be support through other complementary energy efficiency and financial support program , '' WACOSS chief executive Irina Cattalini say . `` We welcome the announcement of the $ 250 million Low Carbon Communities fund to support these kind of program . `` Initiatives like the Western Australian Hardship Efficiency Program and Hardship Utility Grants Scheme will be very important and may need to be expand to support more household affect by the forecast increase the carbon price will have on electricity and gas . `` The government have announce that remote Indigenous community will be support with direct assistance to access clean affordable energy , but more detail need to be provide . '' Follow WAtoday on Twitter @ WAtoday 21 comment so far What a load of bollock ! But then we still manage to keep lower our bill each quarter so I doubt it will effect u much . If people ca n't switch thing off then so be it . Commenter Ailie Date and time Mon Jul 11 01:24:26 UTC 2011 This be just another tax , business will not look to go green they will just pass the tax on to the consumer . Nothing will change except the government will be steal more money of u . Commenter Mark Location Perth Date and time Mon Jul 11 01:52:03 UTC 2011 I have not be able to find anything about self fund retiree . Our superannuation be not huge and everypenny must be count . whats in it for u ? can anyone tell me ? Commenter ebears Location Mandurah Date and time Mon Jul 11 01:54:32 UTC 2011 Colin would n't like the inefficiency of it all . If he be in charge he 'd just add 30 % to the price of everything and let the peasant fight it out amongst themselves . Oh , hang on . He be and he do . Commenter Peter Location Fremantle Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:18:08 UTC 2011 Plainly , Colin be actually a greenie in disguise : he now have the perfect excuse to raise electricity price through the roof . And best of all , he can blame it all on the Federal government ! At this rate , and with an Opposition Leader to `` contend '' with who be totally invisible most day ( what 's his name again - Eric ... something ? ) , Colin plainly have the job for as long a he want it . Are n't we lucky ? Commenter Bradley D . Location Perth Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:20:22 UTC 2011 Why do Barnett think that everyone be stupid ? Cant believe he can come up with this rubbish and hold a straight face . When he get off his knee to the Mining industry he may be able to see what be go on ... . but I doubt it . It be not before time that this country do something about our emission so well do Julia . Remember that the Greens and the independent be all behind this . Perhaps that be why Colin hat it so much : independent and green ; his most hat trait in people . Pull your head out of the sand and get up to date Colin : Diesel bus and cole power power station be soooo last century . Commenter Paul Location Dalkieth Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:22:31 UTC 2011 So Mark ... big business will just pass the cost on hey ? So when another business can make the same product with less carbon emission therefore make a cheap product they wont push the lazy pollute company out of the market then ? I 've manage to get my electricity bill down even with Barnetts price hike ( except the summer air condition bill ) a I have make an EFFORT to reduce my carbon footprint . I be happy to invest $ 10 a week for a clean energy future for this country . Commenter Sami Location Perth Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:29:58 UTC 2011 1 . Rush in a new tax which be suppose to provide an incentice to use less carbon-intensive product ( eg . electricity and fuel ) - and thereby help our environment and protect of future generation . 2 . Negate the effect of that tax by then compensate 90 % of the end user such that they be no bad , or BETTER off , than before . 2a ) The 10 % be the `` rich '' household ... let rename the Labor Party to what it should be `` The Socialist Party '' 3 ) BUY a many vote of the poor , hard-done-by ' , short-sighted Labor voter a they can . Has this Socialist Party state how it measure current emission , and what those level be specifically ? How will the current Socialist Party prove that it new Tax be have an effect ? You know they will say `` Oh we wont see anything for year . '' Nice way to dodge prove any benefit . The ONLY way `` Labor '' know how to win an election be by buying vote - they have no other tool at their disposal . Its actually pathetic to listen to Labor these last 4 year it really be . Commenter SAW Location Perth Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:32:52 UTC 2011 Barnett , your understanding of the scheme have disappoint me . Our electricity be to rise by $ 115 a you say - but we be to be compensate the same a everyone else , a if it be to raise by the national average - $ 170+ . This be not bad for u , this be good for u . We all get cash in pocket from the start of the tax , a reward for have clean power generation than the east coast . My question - why be journalist allow you to present this a punishment ? ie Aja Styles publish your quote figure - $ 115 - and then compare it to the national average , $ 3.30 a week . Why not put these in the same unit Aja ( u = $ 2.20 a week , them = $ 3.30 a week ) , and make it clear to the reader that our power bill be rise less than everyone else ? Commenter Alex Davies Location Perth Date and time Mon Jul 11 02:38:36 UTC 2011 Global Warming ? ? ? ... .Yet another Year 2000 bug money maker . What most people forget this be the first year of several rise . Also read the fine print the price can be alter at anytime upwards not down . Using www.cleanenergyfuture.gov.au you can get an idea with the calculator how much you will be rip off . Just a a laugh it say I be one of the top 900 richist people that will have to pay the full amount . My thought , another very expensive misleading money collection system to cover all the cost blowout the Welsh import have make mistake with . Commenter TruBluAussie Date and time Mon Jul 11 03:09:35 UTC 2011 More comment Would you like to comment ? You will need Javascript enable to use our Commenting Feature . Login to Comment New user ? Sign up Make a comment You be log in a [ Logout ] All information enter below may be publish . Screen name ( require ) Error : Please enter your screen name . Error : Your Screen Name must be less than 255 character . Location ( optional ) Error : Your Location must be less than 255 character . ( require ) 300 word remain Error : Please enter your comment . Error : Your Message must be less than 300 word . Post to Facebook Twitter LinkedIn I understand that submission of this content be cover by the Conditions of Use by which I be bound and Commenting Guidelines be available for my reference . You need to have read and accept the Conditions of Use . Thank you Your comment have be submit for approval . Comments be moderate and be generally publish if they be on-topic and not abusive . Post another comment Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Related Coverage Key point of the carbon price package 11 Jul - Carbon price to start on July 1 , 2012 start at $ 23 a tonne rise at 2.5 per cent a year . Carbon tax another hurdle for housing dream : HIA 11 Jul The dream of own property will recede further out of the reach of first-home buyer due to the introduction of the new carbon tax and the housing market will suffer , a WA housing industry official have warn . A clean start 10 Jul JULIA GILLARD be fight to regain public approval with a cautious carbon tax package and promise of tax cut and high family payment to ensure 6 million Australian household will be good off or fully compensate for it cost . Many group leave disappointed 10 Jul The long-awaited release of the detail of the carbon tax have fail to shift entrench attitude among business and industry sector . Carbon tax will hurt family : WA premier 10 Jul The carbon tax be east coast-centric and will increase the cost of living for middle to high income earner , West Australian Premier Colin Barnett say . Gillard 's carbon tax promise : 'Compensation will keep increasing' 11 Jul Prime Minister Julia Gillard have deny her carbon tax compensation to household will be erode by inflation a she take to the radio wave to spruik the new tax to West Australian listener . WA farmer fear price rise from carbon tax 11 Jul Indirect energy-related price increase from the federal government 's propose carbon tax could cost farmer thousand of dollar a year , West Australian farmer say . Advertisement Related Coverage Key point of the carbon price package Carbon tax another hurdle for housing dream : HIA A clean start Many group leave disappointed Carbon tax will hurt family : WA premier Most popular 1 Sinkhole open up in Wembley Downs Contains : 2 Virgin Australia refusing refund to Perth ... Contains : 3 New Perth report : We 're smarter , richer and ... Contains : total comment 10 4 Twin fire in Beeliar downgrade Contains : 5 Gina Rinehart stop sponsor Sculpture By The ... Contains : total comment 5 LATEST VIDEO National News Videos More video Debating the next 40 year The government 's Intergenerational Report be release , but what do it all mean ? With Liberal Wyatt Roy , Labor 's Amanda Rishworth and Fairfax 's Chris Johnson . From 10.30am . PT0M0S 300 169 Thu Mar 05 23:29:13 UTC 2015 Click to play video Hunt 'relieved ' after cocaine fine '' Click to play video Brisbane stabbing : 'yelling and scream ' `` Click to play video Put your pollie on the spot '' Featured advertiser Special offer View these special deal by Mozo . Most Commented Articles Radio bos 'cheapened ' gender equity debate : WA Equal Opportunity Commissioner 5 comment Advertisement Compare and Save Skip to : Best Deals Mobile Broadband Home Loans Credit Cards Low Rate Cards Rewards Cards Savings Accts Money Deals Loans Check out today 's best deal 0 % p.a . for 14 Months Plus no annual fee for the life of the card Find Out More Low Variable Rates Discover low variable home loan rate from 4.25 % More Info 60,000 Bonus Points Plus 0 % on balance transfer for 6 month Find Out More iPhone 6 We compare all carrier and deal Compare Deals Deals for 2015 Switching network or stay , we compare it Compare Deals Readers ' most view Most view article on The Sydney Morning Herald Top 5 WA News article Perth radio bos 'cheapened ' gender debate : WA Equal Opportunity Commissioner Two more new towering apartment block for South Perth Sinkhole open up in Wembley Downs Ferrari driver have car impound under WA hoon law Twin fire in Beeliar downgrade Most view article on The Age Top 5 WA News article Ferrari driver have car impound under WA hoon law Perth family devastate a son join IS Cold case rapist jail for prostitute attack Two more new towering apartment block for South Perth Gina Rinehart stop sponsor Sculpture By The Sea Most view article on Brisbane Times Top 5 WA News article Sinkhole open up in Wembley Downs Two more new towering apartment block for South Perth Perth radio bos 'cheapened ' gender debate : WA Equal Opportunity Commissioner Perth family devastate a son join IS Train v truck stall Freo peak-hour commute Most view article on Canberra Times Top 5 WA News article Train v truck stall Freo peak-hour commute Warwick Train Station sex assault : teen avoids detention Gina Rinehart stop sponsor Sculpture By The Sea Sinkhole open up in Wembley Downs Two more new towering apartment block for South Perth Most view article on WA Today Top 5 WA News article Two more new towering apartment block for South Perth Sinkhole open up in Wembley Downs Train v truck stall Freo peak-hour commute Gina Rinehart stop sponsor Sculpture By The Sea Perth radio bos 'cheapened ' gender debate : WA Equal Opportunity Commissioner WA Today WA News National Environment Opinion Business Technology Digital Life Life & Style Travel Cars Sport Weather WA Today Sitemap About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Text Version Site Accessibility Guide Connect Mobile Site RSS Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Products & Services Good Food Guide Newsletters Cracka Wines Classifieds Classifieds & Notices Accommodation Cars Dating Jobs Property Price Data Real Estate Buy and Sell Fairfax Media Member Centre Conditions of Use Privacy Policy News Store Archive Photo Sales Purchase Front Pages Fairfax Syndication Fairfax Events Fairfax Careers Press Council Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Buy & Sell Cruises Lawyers Credit Cards Business Mechanics Electricians Fitness Hair Salons Weddings Home Builder Cracker Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media 