Consumer Energy Center - Refrigerators and Freezers CA.gov | Contact Us | Translate / Traducir Google Translate Disclaimer This link to the Google Translate web application be provide for the convenience of our website visitor and be for informational purpose only . The California Energy Commission do not guarantee the accuracy or timeliness of any translation produce by the Google Translate automate web application and be not liable for any inaccurate information result from the use of the Google Translate . The California Energy Commission do not endorse the use of Google Translate ; other translation service may be available to translate the information on our site . Please refer to the Energy Commission 's website Conditions of Use . For more information about Google Translate , please visit : http : //translate.google.com/about/intl/en_ALL/ . Please consult a translator for accuracy if you be rely on the translation or be use this site for official business . Select a language below : Click to close this disclaimer and return to web page . Statewide search : Search this site : This Site California HOME RESIDENTIAL Appliances Construction Consumer Tips to Save Energy Heating and Cooling Inside Your Home Lighting Outside Your Home Cool Roofs Tighten Up Your Home ! Windows Your Energy Bill BUSINESS Energy Bills Green Buildings Lighting Schools Consumer Tips Cool Roofs RENEWABLE ENERGY GoSolarCalifornia.org Biomass Fuel Cells Geothermal Hydro-electric Solar Solar Thermal Wind TRANSPORTATION Alternative Fuel Vehicles Hybrid Vehicles Fleet Manager Information Buying a Car Incentives People Power Telecommuting Urban Options CONSUMER TIPS Winter Tips Getting Your Home Ready for Winter If the Lights Go Out in Winter Summer Tips Getting Your Home Ready for Summer If the Lights Go Out in Summer Energy Tips for Your Vehicle Appliances Clothes Dryers Clothes Washers Dishwashers Microwaves Ranges/Stoves/Ovens Refrigerators/Freezers Water Heaters Energy Guide ENERGYSTAR Appliances Refrigerators and Freezers Modern refrigerator illustrate perfectly how energy efficiency standard can improve appliance and save consumer money . The California Energy Commission establish the first standard for efficiency in refrigerator in 1976 , standard that be eventually adopt by the U.S. Department of Energy in 1987 . Since the standard be put in place , the energy efficiency of home refrigerator have improve by an estimate 2 percent per year . An average refrigerator today us just 25 percent of the energy a 1975 model require , even though today 's model refrigerator have increase in size by almost 20 percent and have feature such a icemakers and water dispenser . According to the Department of Energy today 's refrigerator , compare to those of the 1970s , save the the nation about $ 20 billion per year in energy cost , or $ 150 per year for the average American family . Even though refrigerator be more efficient , they still need to keep food cool or freeze 24 hour a day . On average , a refrigerator use 13.7 percent of a home 's energy , the large energy-user behind an air conditioner , which us 16 percent . Since the normal refrigerator last between 15 and 20 year , the energy efficiency decision you make when buy one will likely be with you for year . Types of refrigerator Refrigerators and freezer come in a wide array of style and size . These be the basic configuration . Refrigerator with freezer The simple model have a single large door , behind which be a freezer compartment and refrigerate space . These model can cost less initially , but be less energy efficient ; each time the single door be open , warm air will raise the temperature of the freezer and require energy to cool it again . The freezer compartment be usually small . Top-mount refrigerator Probably the most traditional and economical style , this model have separate door for the refrigerator and the smaller freezer area above it . It use less energy since freezer temperature remain more constant behind a separate door . Bottom-mount refrigerator These design put the freezer section under the refrigerator . Both section have their own door , but since the refrigerator be open more often than the freezer , item need most frequently be more often at eye level and consumer have to bend less to retrieve them . Refrigerators with the freezer on the bottom be usually more expensive than more common top-mount model . Bottom freezer can be lay out with shelving or a pull-out basket with a door or a pull-out drawer ; Side-by-side refrigerator Installing a freezer on the left alongside a refrigerated compartment make it easy for consumer to organize , view and retrieve freeze food . This design be more expensive and less efficient than the traditional top-mount design and be available usually only in larger-sized refrigerator of 22 cubic foot or more . While the freezer section may have a large capacity , refrigerate section may be small , which can be a drawback . French-door refrigerator A fairly recent design that combine the best of both the bottom mount and side-by-side design , French-door refrigerator offer two side-by-side door open on a refrigerator section place above a single pullout freezer drawer . This provide a full-width refrigerator with the convenience of swing door . If only one narrow refrigerator door be open , less cold air escape . French-door refrigerator tend to be the most expensive model , with most sell for between $ 1,500 and $ 2,500 . They come in most standard size , but sometimes need extra space for the door to open properly . All refrigerator It 's possible to buy a refrigerator without a freezer . This be usually the simple , most economical refrigerator to purchase and provide the large capacity . Since it have no freezer compartment , however , most homeowner need a separate freezer . Stand-alone freezer come in two style Chest freezer Freezers that open from the top be the most economical type because nearly every interior inch of the appliance provide usable storage . Heavy insulation make chest freezer hold cold well and mean they require the least energy to maintain . The boxy appliance can have a large horizontal footprint , however , and need adequate space above them so that the lid can be open . Sorting through the content can require stretch and bend . Upright freezer Upright freezer , which look much like refrigerator , cost more and provide about 15 percent less usable storage capacity than chest model . On the other hand , they have a small footprint and make organize the content much easy , since they typically have adjustable shelf and other option to make food easy to reach . Check the efficiency label Refrigerators have to meet federal or California standard for minimum operating efficiency . It 's possible , however , to purchase a refrigerator that be well than the minimum . Refrigerators that exceed minimum standard will run more efficiently and provide you with long-term saving on your monthly utility bill , often repay their added up-front cost many time over . Manufacturers and retailer can voluntarily place ENERGY STAR label on appliance that meet or exceed standard set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy . ENERGY STAR qualify refrigerator be require to use 20 percent less energy than model not label with the ENERGY STAR logo . Also look for an EnergyGuide label that tell you in kilowatt-hours ( kWh ) how much electricity a particular refrigerator model us in a year . The small the number , the less energy the refrigerator use and the less it will cost you to operate . While these energy label can help consumer make wise choice , they also can be confuse . Read them carefully . The Energy Star program do n't simply indicate the most efficient refrigerator ; it divide refrigerator into five category and award Energy Star label to the best-performing refrigerator in each category : Top-mount refrigerator without through-the-door ice dispenser ; Top-mount refrigerator with through-the-door ice dispenser ; Bottom-mount refrigerator without through-the-door ice dispenser ; Side-by-side ( side-mount freezer ) refrigerator without through-the-door ice dispenser ; Side-by-side ( side-mount freezer ) refrigerator with through-the-door ice dispenser . Keep in mind : Refrigerators in some of these category use much more energy than refrigerator in other category . The most efficient Energy Star-qualified side-by-side with an ice dispenser , for example , still may use much more power than a top-mount model of the same size that do n't even qualify for Energy Star status . Likewise , the yellow EnergyGuide label detail the `` energy use ( kWh/year ) range of all similar model . '' The yellow sticker compare electricity consumption only with model in the same category - side-by-side refrigerator-freezers be only compare to other side-by-side refrigerator-freezers , for example , and not with other model . The best way to use EnergyGuide label be to look at the listing `` this model use '' which detail the expect energy use in kilowatt/hours per year . Compare that figure with the expect energy use of all other model to make the wise energy choice . When the yellow label estimate an appliance 's yearly operating cost , the figure be base on the average cost of electricity . Rates at your utility may be high or low than the national average , and your cost will vary . Smart Buying Consider these tip when shop for a new refrigerator or freezer : Measure the space available in your kitchen for a refrigerator before you shop . Leave at least a 1-inch clearance around the unit for adequate airflow , and factor in how much space the door need to swing open in relation to adjacent wall , cabinet , and appliance . Explore the ENERGY STAR product database . It list high efficiency refrigerator , refrigerator-freezers , and freezer that exceed appliance efficiency standard by at least 20 percent . The more efficient model may qualify for rebate - check with your local utility . In the showroom , compare the ACTUAL energy use number on EnergyGuide label , and compare different model to find the most efficient . This be likely to be a top-mount refrigerator . Top-mount model use 10 percent to 30 percent less energy than same-sized side-by-side model , which the federal government hold to different standard . Consider your family 's need and purchase the right-sized refrigerator . Generally , the large the refrigerator , the great it energy consumption . The most energy-efficient model be typically 16-20 cubic foot . But remember that it be usually more efficient to operate one big refrigerator rather than two small one . Consider skipping the ice-maker and dispenser . Through-the-door icemakers and water dispenser be convenient and reduce the need to open the door , which help maintain a more constant temperature . But these convenient item increase a refrigerator 's energy use by 14 percent to 20 percent and may raise the purchase price by $ 75 to $ 250 . A manual defrost refrigerator us half the energy of an automatic defrost model but must be defrost regularly to stay energy efficient . Refrigerators with anti-sweat heater consume 5 percent to 10 percent more energy . Look for model with an `` energy saver '' switch that let you turn down - or off - the heating coil that prevent condensation . Chest freezer be usually more efficient than upright model . Chest freezer be well insulate , and cold air do n't spill out when the door be open . Automatic defrost freezer can consume 40 percent more electricity than similar manual defrost model . Smart Use Consider these tip to minimize the amount of energy your refrigerator us . Do n't put the refrigerator near a heat source - an oven , dishwasher or even direct sunlight from a window - or it will have to work hard to maintain cool temperature . If you must install a dishwasher or stave next to the refrigerator , place a sheet of foam insulation between them . Make sure air can circulate around the condenser coil . Leave at least a one-inch space between the appliance and the wall or cabinet . Check door seal to make sure they be airtight . To test them , close the door on a dollar bill and try to pull it out . Or place a bright flashlight inside the refrigerator and direct the light toward a section of the door seal . With the door close and the room dark , look for light through the door seal . Check the temperature - a fridge that be 10 degree cold than necessary can use 25 percent more energy . Refrigerators should be keep between 35 and 38 degree , and freezer at 0 degree Fahrenheit . A full refrigerator retains cold well than an empty one . If your refrigerator be nearly empty , store water-filled container inside . The mass of cold item will enable the refrigerator to recover more quickly after the door have be open . On the other hand , do n't overfill it , since that will interfere with the circulation of cold air inside . The simple solution be to buy the right size for your family in the first place . Open the door a little a possible . Get in and out quickly . Label leftover so you can quickly see what they be . Regularly defrost manual-defrost model . Frost buildup increase the amount of energy need to keep the motor run . Many refrigerator have small heater build into the wall to prevent moisture from condense on the outer surface - a if the refrigerator do n't have to work hard enough already ! On some unit , this feature can be turn off with an energy-saver or power-saver switch . Unless you have noticeable condensation , keep this switch on the energy-saving setting . Get rid of that old , energy-hogging second refrigerator in your garage ! It can cost you hundreds of dollar a year . One large refrigerator be cheap to run than two small one . /home /glossary /contact /privacy 