Electrical Products : : One Bag `` authoritative and well-organized '' USA Today Arrivals Lighten your Load About OneBag.com About the Author Media Coverage What To Pack Using A Packing List One-Page Checklist Weight Watching Clothes & Laundry Electrical Products Prohibited Items Safety & Security see also : Packing List What To Pack It In Choosing A Bag Business Travel Bags Leisure Travel Bags Dual-Purpose Bags Day Travel Bags Wheeled Bags ( ? ) Expandable Bags ( ? ) How To Pack It Packing Clothes Packing Liquids Useful Packing Tips Checking Bags Travel With Children A Packing List Introduction Wardrobe Luggage Tools Repairs Toiletries Comforts Laundry Health Paperwork Valuables Specialty Items Resources Suppliers TraveLinks TraveLetters TraveLibrary TraveLore Internet Cafs Travel Industry Links Site Update Log Departures Before You Leave Final Exam Feedback / Contact Luggage Tags Share This Page Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator . Travel light and you can sing in the robber 's face . Juvenal , Roman poet c. 50130 CE What To Pack Electrical Products Things that must be plug in are in conspicuously short supply on my own personalpacking list ; they add bulk and weight rarely compensate for by usefulness . Try hard to eliminate them . If , however , you just ca n't live without your electric shaver ( a small bottle of shave oil and a razor be much more appropriate ) , or your hair dryer ( think about towel/air drying , or even a more travel-friendly hair style ) , do n't forget that electrical power varies throughout the world . Most country use 220240 volt AC ( alternating current ) at 50 Hertz ( frequency , aka cycle per second ) , though severalincluding Canada , Japan , and the U.S.A.use 110120 volt at 60 Hertz . Moreover , there be more than a dozen style of wall socket , each require a different type of plug . Plug adapter and voltage converter be available for all of this , of course ( Walkabout Travel Gear be a particularly well-equipped and helpful source of such device ) ; also check the `` Destination `` section of the TraveLinks page for an excellent information site ) . Remember that , when use converter , you must also be concern with power ( wattage ) rating . And some devicesoften those with motorsare sensitive to the AC frequency , which can not ( in any practical manner ) be convert . Plug adapter can be find feature all sort of ingenious construction , such a the `` Tripshell Universal Travel Adapter `` ( picture at leave ) , which provide configurable plug adaptation for some 150 country worldwide . It incorporate a 6A fuse ( which mean it will handle 660W @ 110V , 1440W @ 240V ) , L-N surge protector ( to isolate sensitive electronics from potential power spike ) , 110/230VAC voltage indicator , and child safety shutter . These can be a convenient solution if you 're travel to many part of the world on a single trip , but for a modest number of destination , simple single-solution adapter will be small , light , and considerably more reliable . Many product ( especially modern electronic device such a computer , camera , and cellphone ) be available with `` universal '' power supply or multi-voltage setting ; you 'll still need plug adapter , though . And remember : if you carry electrical device that must be plug in , you should be prepare for a shortage of available outlet ( often in limited-supply/high-demand location such a airport and hostel ) ; consider bringing along a cube tap or the equivalent , to help both you and your fellow traveller . If you choose to travel with a device have a 120/240V switch , get into the habit of switch it to 240V when you pack it : should you mistakenly plug it into a 240V socket when set to 120V , you will have an ex-device . The various cable associate with electronic device ( some of which be consider in the Specialty Items section of the OneBag packing list ) be notorious source of unnecessary bulk and weight , and attract unwanted attention from security personnel . Companies like CableJive ( one of their Apple cable be picture at leave ) and Kurze Kabel be useful supplier of short cable to help reduce this problem . If you 've become wed to a smart phone or other portable device , and your travel take you to place where electrical outlet be in shortor nonexistentsupply ( this can even include long flight and road trip ) , you need to think about carry a spare battery , something more easily manage with some device than others . One popular solution be the Anker Astro series of portable , rechargeable power pack ; even their very large ( 10,000mAh ) model ( picture at right ) , capable of charging one or two USB-connected device at a 3-ampere level , be a quite compact 5.62.830.55 inch ( 14.57.191.4cm ) , and weighs a tolerable 8.48 ounce ( 240g ) . A number of low-power electrical item , such a battery and cell-phone charger , can be obtain in USB-powered version , reduce the need to carry separate ( heavy , bulky ) converter . If you lug a laptop , you can plug them in there , though many modern television come with USB port a well , so check the one in your hotel room . And those tot a large collection of high-tech gadgetry might find benefit in the wide variety of adapter & charger at iGo.com . But you can best eliminate the hassle by eliminate the gadget . Even if a hair dryer do make a great sock dryer . 