Are smart meter real-time surveillance spy ? | Network World Trending : FREAK attack : How to secure your code Your Mobile World Congress round-up Cisco unfazed by HP/Aruba Resources/White Papers network world Most read : Aruba Networks be different than HP 's fail wireless acquisition The myth about how Amazons Web service start just wont die IT certifications that deliver high pay Ultimate guide to Linux desktop environment Cisco unfazed by HP/Aruba Best new Android & Windows smartphones at MWC 2015 Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Google+ RSS Search Search for Suggestions for you Insider email Security All Security Access Control Application Security Compliance Malware/Cybercrime Mobile Security Network Security Security and Vulnerability Management LAN & WAN All LAN & WAN Ethernet Switch IPv6 Internet of Things Router Service Providers WAN Optimization SDN Unified Communications/VoIP All Unified Communications/VoIP Collaboration/Social Contact Center E-mail Services Videoconferencing VoIP Cloud Computing All Cloud Computing Cloud Security Cloud Storage Hybrid Cloud IaaS PaaS Private Cloud Public Cloud SaaS Infrastructure Management All Infrastructure Management Application Performance Management Asset Management Network Management System Management Wireless All Wireless 4G Android BYOD MDM/MAM Mobile Apps Smartphones Wi-Fi iOS Software All Software Applications Big Data/Business Intelligence CRM ERP Linux Windows Data Center All Data Center Business Continuity Disaster Recovery Green IT Network Storage PCs Servers Tablets Virtual Desktop Virtualization SMB Careers All Careers Education IT Skills & Training Salary Tech Debates Tech Primers Cisco Subnet Microsoft Subnet Open Source Subnet News Tests Insider Blogs Resources/White Papers Newsletters Video IT Job Search Events Microsoft Subnet An independent Microsoft community View more More Subnet Communities C S Cisco Subnet M S Microsoft Subnet OS S Open Source Subnet Home Microsoft Subnet Privacy and Security Fanatic By Ms. Smith Follow RSS twitter About | RSS Ms. Smith ( not her real name ) be a freelance writer and programmer with a special and somewhat personal interest in IT privacy and security issue . twitter Share on Twitter facebook Like on Facebook linkedin Share on LinkedIn googleplus +1 on Google+ Email a friend To Use commas to separate multiple email address From Privacy Policy Thank you Your message have be send . Sorry There be an error email this page . Are smart meter real-time surveillance spy ? Related Hackers need to save the world at least America Hacking For Privacy : 2 day for amateur hacker to hack smart meter , fake ... Digital Signage : Privacy in a 'One-Way Mirror Society' on IDG Answers Will the addition of backdoor that enable monitoring hurt the adoption of ... Smart meter provide highly detail energy-use data that law enforcement can use to bust indoor pot farmer . And that 's only the tip of potential smart meter surveillance . Network World | Mar 1 , 2011 1:59 PM PT Smart Grid law enforcement Security Microsoft Smart meter provide highly detail energy-use data . The info can be use by police to find and to bust indoor pot farm , by insurance company to determine health care premium , and by criminal to determine if you own high-dollar appliance and when be the best time to steal them . And that 's only the tip of the potential privacy invasion iceberg . In central Ohio , police file at least 60 subpoena each month for energy-use record of people suspect in indoor marijuana grow operation , report the Columbus Dispatch . Most of the house with indoor pot grow operation be reportedly in quiet neighborhood without much traffic . DEA agent Anthony Marotta say the subpoena be only one tool use to catch `` grow house '' operator . Police get a tip about suspicious activity , but if undercover officer do n't discover anything illegal during a stake out , then utility consumption record can be seek . `` How else can I get an indicator to get probable cause if I ca n't see anything ? '' Marotta say to reporter Dean Narciso . High electricity usage do not always indicate a pot grow operation . DEA agent Marotta tell the Columbus Dispatch of a federal investigation that surprise drug detective . `` We think it be a major grow operation ... but this guy have some kind of business involve computer . I do n't know how many computer server we find in his home . '' Using the smart grid for surveillance to catch marijuana grow operation be far from a new concept . NeverGetBusted document `` fish for pot '' by `` troll for data '' back in 2006 . In 2007 , the Dallas Criminal Defense Lawyer Blog report on Texas warrantless surveillance program in which Austin Energy provide Austin Police with customer usage information to find indoor pot farm . But accord to the Baltimore Sun , pot grower use pirate electricity by tapping and rout line , unmetered , to their grow room . Smart meter can change that by identifying the undetected illegal power line . Software will detect anomaly and electricity theft . British Columbia Hydro 's smart-meter expert Fiona Taylor tell the Vancouver Sun , `` This system will allow u to follow the flow of electricity from point to point . We will be able to see at a macro level what be happen . '' By cutting back on the 3 % of illegal electricity use by pot grower , BC Hydro expect smart meter to pay for themselves in under 10 year . In comment via several online article about use the smart grid to target indoor marijuana garden , some people say that every minute a police department `` waste '' by reading electricity consumption could have be use to fight `` real '' crime like murder . The U.S. Department of Energy warn [ PDF ] that smart grid technology can provide a highly detail household profile of energy consumption and say policy be need to restrict utility from share consumer usage data with third party . The National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) outline Potential Privacy Impacts that Arise from the Collection and Use of Smart Grid Data [ PDF ] . From reading it , a person might wonder if smart meter will be real-time surveillance spy . It suggest that insurance company might use the smart meter data to determine health care premium , such a if there be high usage at night which would indicate sleep behavior problem . Besides look to bust pot farmer , law enforcement might use the data a `` real-time surveillance to determine if resident be present and current activity inside the home . '' The press might wish to see the smart meter data of celebrity . Criminals may want to see the data to determine the best time for a burglary and what high dollar appliance you might have to steal . Marketers might want the data for profile and target advertisement . Creditors might want the data to determine if behavior indicates creditworthiness . It be little wonder that privacy advocate call for robust privacy policy since the capture smart meter data can reveal an intimate and highly detail look into people 's life . Security expert also call to plug potential smart grid security risk . Lockheed Martin general manager of Energy and Cyber Services say the smart grid could include a many a 440 million new hackable point by the end of 2015 , report Computerworld . There be a great deal of good that smart grid technology can do , but it hold many potential privacy and security problem . Without strong privacy policy , smart meter could easily become be real-time surveillance spy . Like this ? Check out these other post : All of today 's Microsoft news and blog Digital Data Mined Dating Behavioral Ads Appearing On Online Banking Statements Digital Signage : Privacy in a 'One-Way Mirror Society' Snooping on Social Networks to Vet Jurors and Hire Employees Microsoft : Want Unrestricted Net Access ? Need PC Health Certificate Watchdog Group question Google 's relationship with NSA Former FBI Agent Turned ACLU Attorney : Feds Routinely Spy on Citizens Police State of Wiretapping the Web : Who Do THEY Want to Watch ? Photographers Are NOT Terrorists Follow me on Twitter @ PrivacyFanatic Smart Grid law enforcement Security Microsoft Previous Post Snooping on Social Networks to Vet Jurors and Hire Employees Next Post Real life HAL 9000 : computer react to human emotion ? Ms. Smith User Mail Twitter RSS From CSO : 7 security mistake people make with their mobile device You Might Like Join the discussion Be the first to comment on this article . Our Commenting Policies Do n't Miss FTC target group that make billion of robocalls FTC and 10 state attorney general settle with vacation service group that make massive robocall ... Aruba Networks be different than HP 's fail wireless acquisition What happens inside Amazon when there a Xen vulnerability Newsletters Sign up and receive the late news , review and trend on your favorite technology topic . Get our Daily News newsletter Go Backyard ice bar get cool with 3D printing We up the tech quotient of our backyard ice bar with coaster make from 3D-printed form . CuBox-i4Pro : A whole lotta Linux or Android for not a whole lotta cash You can use the CuBox-i4Pro a an Android machine , a general purpose Linux host with or without ... BrandPost Learn more Sponsored by AT & T 4G LTE be a strong WAN access contender ( and not just because of the Sponsored by Brocade SDN Bandwagon Getting Ready to Move Resources White Paper 2014 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Client Management Tools White Paper Architects Lead the Way for Data-Driven Apps Video/Webcast Sponsored Bringing Analytics to the Masses with OpenShift Enterprise White Paper First Cloud project ? Consider using AppDev/Test White Paper Five Cloud Strategies for the CIO Go Top Stories What network technology be go to shake up your WAN ? From hybrid network to security challenge the potential WAN disruption list be long . 7 social engineering scam and how to avoid them Even the most savvy IT professionals can fall victim to social engineering attack . Heres how to ... Smartphones be about to become network hub Broadcom 's late chipset will run 2.4 and 5 GHz Wi-Fi simultaneously . That change everything in term ... What happens inside Amazon when there a Xen vulnerability When a Xen vulnerability be find , Amazon security engineer scramble to respond . Sponsored Links Online Master of Science in Information Systems at Northwestern University See the Infographic : The Critical Path to an Agile Data Center Save on electronics from Dells deal of the week ! Network World Follow u Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Google+ RSS Security LAN & WAN SDN Unified Communications/VoIP Cloud Computing Infrastructure Management Wireless Software Data Center SMB Careers Tech Debates Tech Primers Cisco Subnet Microsoft Subnet Open Source Subnet Features News Blogs Resources Newsletters Events About Us Contact Privacy Policy Advertising Careers at IDG Site Map Ad Choices Copyright 1994 - 2015 Network World , Inc. All right reserve . Explore the IDG Network descend CFOworld CIO CITEworld Computerworld CSO DEMO Greenbot IDC IDG IDG Answers IDG Connect IDG Knowledge Hub IDG TechNetwork IDG.TV IDG Ventures InfoWorld IT News ITwhitepapers ITworld JavaWorld LinuxWorld Macworld Network World PC World TechHive This ad will close in 20 second . Continue to site 