WHO | What be electromagnetic field ? Skip to main content Help Support Ebola Access Home Alt+0 Navigation Alt+1 Content Alt+2 Search Search the WHO .int site Submit Advanced search Navigation Home Health topic Data Media centre Publications Countries Programmes About WHO Language English Franais Espaol RSS Feed Youtube Twitter Facebook Google + iTunes Play Store Electromagnetic field ( EMF ) Menu EMF Home About electromagnetic field EMF Project Research Standards EMF publication & information resource Meetings What be electromagnetic field ? Typical exposure level at home and in the environment Electromagnetic field at home Background electromagnetic field level from electricity transmission and distribution facility Electricity be transmit over long distance via high voltage power line . Transformers reduce these high voltage for local distribution to home and business . Electricity transmission and distribution facility and residential wiring and appliance account for the background level of power frequency electric and magnetic field in the home . In home not locate near power line this background field may be up to about 0.2 T. Directly beneath power line the field be much strong . Magnetic flux density at ground level can range up to several T. Electric field level underneath power line can be as high a 10 kV/m . However , the field ( both electric and magnetic ) drop off with distance from the line . At 50 m to 100 m distance the field be normally at level that be find in area away from high voltage power line . In addition , house wall substantially reduce the electric field level from those find at similar location outside the house . Electric appliance in the household The strong power frequency electric field that be ordinarily encounter in the environment exist beneath high voltage transmission line . In contrast , the strong magnetic field at power frequency be normally find very close to motor and other electrical appliance , a well a in specialize equipment such a magnetic resonance scanner use for medical imaging . Typical electric field strength measure near household appliance ( at a distance of 30 cm ) ( From : Federal Office for Radiation Safety , Germany 1999 ) Electric appliance Electric field strength ( V/m ) Stereo receiver 180 Iron 120 Refrigerator 120 Mixer 100 Toaster 80 Hair dryer 80 Colour TV 60 Coffee machine 60 Vacuum cleaner 50 Electric oven 8 Light bulb 5 Guideline limit value 5000 Many people be surprise when they become aware of the variety of magnetic field level find near various appliance . The field strength do not depend on how large , complex , powerful or noisy the device be . Furthermore , even between apparently similar device , the strength of the magnetic field may vary a lot . For example , while some hair dryer be surround by a very strong field , others hardly produce any magnetic field at all . These difference in magnetic field strength be relate to product design . The follow table show typical value for a number of electrical device commonly find in home and workplace . The measurement be take in Germany and all of the appliance operate on electricity at a frequency of 50 Hz . It should be note that the actual exposure level vary considerably depend on the model of appliance and distance from it . Typical magnetic field strength of household appliance at various distance Electric appliance 3 cm distance ( T ) 30 cm distance ( T ) 1 m distance ( T ) Hair dryer 6 2000 0.01 7 0.01 0.03 Electric shaver 15 1500 0.08 9 0.01 0.03 Vacuum cleaner 200 800 2 20 0.13 2 Fluorescent light 40 400 0.5 2 0.02 0.25 Microwave oven 73 200 4 8 0.25 0.6 Portable radio 16 56 1 < 0.01 Electric oven 1 50 0.15 0.5 0.01 0.04 Washing machine 0.8 50 0.15 3 0.01 0.15 Iron 8 30 0.12 0.3 0.01 0.03 Dishwasher 3.5 20 0.6 3 0.07 0.3 Computer 0.5 30 < 0.01 Refrigerator 0.5 1.7 0.01 0.25 < 0.01 Colour TV 2.5 - 50 0.04 2 0.01 0.15 With most household appliance the magnetic field strength at a distance of 30 cm be well below the guideline limit for the general public of 100 T . ( Source : Federal Office for Radiation Safety , Germany 1999 ) Normal operate distance be give in bold The table illustrate two main point : First , the magnetic field strength around all appliance rapidly decrease the further you get away from them . Secondly , most household appliance be not operate very close to the body . At a distance of 30 cm the magnetic field surround most household appliance be more than 100 time low than the give guideline limit of 100 T at 50 Hz ( 83 T at 60 Hz ) for the general public . Television set and computer screen Computer screen and television set work on similar principle . Both produce static electric field and alternate electric and magnetic field at various frequency . However , screen with liquid crystal display use in some laptop computer and desktop unit do not give rise to significant electric and magnetic field . Modern computer have conductive screen which reduce the static field from the screen to a level similar to that of the normal background in the home or workplace . At the position of operator ( 30 to 50 cm from the screen ) , alternate magnetic field be typically below 0.7 T in flux density ( at power frequency ) . Alternating electric field strength at operator position range from below 1 V/m up to 10 V/m . Microwave ovens Domestic microwave oven operate at very high power level . However , effective shielding reduces leakage outside the oven to almost non-detectable level . Furthermore microwave leakage fall very rapidly with increase distance from the oven . Many country have manufacture standard that specify maximum leakage level for new oven ; an oven that meet the manufacture standard will not present any hazard to the consumer . Portable telephone Portable telephone operate at much low intensity than mobile phone . This be because they be employ very close to their home base station , and so do not need strong field to transmit over long distance . As a consequence , the radiofrequency field that surround these device be negligible . Electromagnetic field in the environment Radar Radars be use for navigation , weather forecast , and military application , a well a a variety of other function . They emit pulse microwave signal . The peak power in the pulse can be high even though the average power may be low . Many radar rotate or move up and down ; this reduces the mean power density to which the public be expose in the vicinity of radar . Even high power , non-rotating military radar limit exposure to below guideline level at location of public access . Security system Anti-theft system in shop use tag that be detect by electrical coil at the exit . When a purchase be make the tag be remove or permanently deactivate . The electromagnetic field from the coil do not generally exceed exposure guideline level . Access control system work in the same way with the tag incorporate into a key ring or identity card . Library security system use tag that can be deactivate when a book be borrow and reactivate when it be return . Metal detector and airport security system set up a strong magnetic field of up to 100 T that be disturb by the presence of a metal object . Close to the frame of the detector , magnetic field strength may approach and occasionally exceed guideline level . However , this do not constitute a health hazard , a will be discuss in the section on guideline . ( see Are exposure above the guideline harmful ? ) Electric train and tram Long-distance train have one or more engine car that be separate from the passenger car . Thus passenger exposure come mainly from the electricity supply to the train . Magnetic field in the passenger car of long-distance train can be several hundred T near the floor , with low value ( ten of T ) elsewhere in the compartment . Electric field strength may reach 300 V/m . People living in the vicinity of railway line may encounter magnetic field from the overhead supply which , depend on the country , may be comparable to the field produce by high-voltage power line . Motors and traction equipment of train and tram be normally locate underneath the floor of passenger car . At floor level , magnetic field intensity may amount to ten of T in region of the floor just above the motor . The field fall off quickly with distance from the floor , and exposure of the upper body of passenger be much low . TV and radio When choose a radio station on your stereo at home , have you ever wonder what the familiar abbreviation AM and FM stand for ? Radio signal be describe a amplitude-modulated ( AM ) or frequency-modulated ( FM ) depend on the way in which they carry information . AM radio signal can be use for broadcasting over very long distance whereas FM wave cover more localized area but can give a good sound quality . AM radio signal be transmit via large array of antenna , which can be ten of metre high , on site which be off-limits to the public . Exposures very close to antenna and fee cable can be high , but these would affect maintenance worker rather than the general public . TV and FM radio antennas be much small than AM radio antennas and be mount in array at the top of high tower . The tower themselves serve only a support structure . As exposures near the foot of these tower be below guideline limit , public access to these area may be possible . Small local TV and radio antenna be sometimes mount on the top of building ; if this be the case it may be necessary to control access to the roof . Mobile phone and their base station Mobile phone allow people to be within reach at all time . These low-power radiowave device transmit and receive signal from a network of fix low power base station . Each base station provide coverage to a give area . Depending on the number of call be handle , base station may be from only a few hundred metre apart in major city to several kilometre apart in rural area . Mobile phone base station be usually mount on the top of building or on tower at height of between 15 and 50 metre . The level of transmission from any particular base station be variable and depend on the number of call and the caller ' distance from the base station . Antennas emit a very narrow beam of radiowaves which spread out almost parallel to the ground . Therefore , radiofrequency field at ground level and in region normally accessible to the public be many time below hazard level . Guidelines would only be exceed if a person be to approach to within a metre or two directly in front of the antenna . Until mobile phone become widely use , member of the public be mainly expose to radiofrequency emission from radio and TV station . Even today , the phone tower themselves add little to our total exposure , a signal strength in place of public access be normally similar to or low than those from distant radio and TV station . However , the user of a mobile phone be expose to radiofrequency field much high than those find in the general environment . Mobile phone be operate very close to the head . Therefore , rather than look at the heating effect across the whole body , the distribution of absorb energy in the head of the user must be determine . From sophisticate computer modeling and measurement use model of head , it appear that the energy absorb from a mobile phone be not in excess of current guideline . Concerns about other so-called non-thermal effect arise from exposure to mobile phone frequency have also be raise . These include suggestion of subtle effect on cell that could have an effect on cancer development . Effects on electrically excitable tissue that may influence the function of the brain and nervous tissue have also be hypothesize . However , the overall evidence available to date do not suggest that the use of mobile phone have any detrimental effect on human health . Magnetic field in everyday life : be they really that high ? In recent year , national authority in different country have conduct many measurement to investigate electromagnetic field level in the living environment . None of these survey have conclude that field level could bring about adverse health effect . The Federal Office for Radiation Safety in Germany recently measure the daily exposure to magnetic field of about 2000 individual across a range of occupation and public exposure . All of them be equip with personal dosimeter for 24 hour . The measure exposure vary widely but give an average daily exposure of 0.10 T. This value be a thousand time low that the standard limit of 100 T for the public and five thousand time low than the 500 T exposure limit for worker . Furthermore , the exposure of people live in the centre of city show that there be no drastic difference in exposure between life in rural area and life in the city . Even the exposure of people live in the vicinity of high voltage power line differs very little from the average exposure in the population . Key point Background electromagnetic field level in the home be mainly cause by the transmission and distribution facility for electricity or by electrical appliance . Electrical appliance differ greatly in the strength of field they generate . Both electric and magnetic field level decrease rapidly with distance from the appliance . In any event , field surround household appliance usually be far below guideline limit . At operator position the electric and magnetic field of television set and computer screen be hundred of thousand time below guideline level . Microwave ovens meeting the standard be not hazardous to health . As long a close public access to radar facility , broadcast antenna and mobile phone base station be restrict , exposure guideline limit for radiofrequency field will not be exceed . The user of a mobile phone encounter field level that be much high than any level in the normal living environment . However , even these increase level do not appear to generate harmful effect . Many survey have demonstrate that exposure to electromagnetic field level in the living environment be extremely low . Previouspage 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Nextpage Share Email Twitter Facebook Google Delicious LinkedIn More ... Print Table of content Definitions and source Summary of health effect Progress in research Typical exposure level at home and in the environment Current standard Precautionary approach What be EMF - German , Italian & Swedish You be here : Electromagnetic field ( EMF ) About electromagnetic field Quick Links Sitemap Home Health topic Data Media centre Publications Countries Programmes and project About WHO Help and Services Contacts FAQs Employment Feedback Privacy E-mail scam WHO Regional Offices WHO African Region WHO Region of the Americas WHO South-East Asia Region WHO European Region WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region WHO Western Pacific Region RSS Feeds WHO YouTube channel Follow WHO on Twitter WHO Facebook page WHO Google+ page WHO iTunes WHO Play Store 