Solar Power , an Idiot 's Guide . - THE MUD THE MUD Follow me on Facebook , Twitter and Pinterest , . Home Earthbag Building Earthquakes and earthbag Earthbag in Extreme Weather The Interior Living Roofs The Ins and Outs of Earthplaster Gravel Foundations Mud a Mortar Earthbag for Dogs Lime Finish Sustainable Living Solar Power Life Without Concrete Composting Toilets Compost Showers Building for free . Organic Gardening the Easy Way The Zeer Pot Fridge The Circle of Life The Mountain Blog The Earthbag Adventure Mud Comment : Guest Posts About Honesty Box All You Need to Know About Solar Power . Trying to work out what exactly you need for a solar power system can be daunt . People may end up spending a small fortune and still not have the power they feel they need . Im very grateful to a man call Klaus who visit my earthbag home this winter . In le than half-an hour he ply me with enough information to enable me to design a solar system tailor-made to my need . You dont need to invest vast amount of cash if you dont have it . But you do need some stats . The trouble be information on small off-grid solar system be curiously hard to find , or at the very least tricky to unravel . Here I 've cobble together an idiot 's guide to small , cheap solar system in an attempt to shed some light on the strangely nebular science of solar power . Basic Solar Power Equipment . Batteries , an inverter and a regulator . There be four main component to your solar power system 1.Solar panel . These draw in the sun energy for you . The more efficient your panel , the more energy they absorb . The two main type of solar panel be Monocrystalline ( black ) or Polycrystalline ( blue/dark blue ) . There be still much confabulation about which be well and you can follow that debate here if you like . The truth be the manufacturer be more important than mono or poly . And the consensus seem to be that it 's the Germans ( no surprise there ) that be push out the most efficient panel . 2 . Batteries . These store the power collect by the panel . The more you store , the more you can use when there no sun . Again you be face with a choice . Dry or wet battery ? You can use either in your solar system though wet be usually more readily available . Read about the pro and con of each here if you be so dispose . 3 . Regulator ( controller ) . This be the brain of your system . If your battery over-charge or over-drain , their longevity be severely reduce . The regulator control how much your battery can charge . When they reach their optimum limit ( preferably about 14.5 V ) the regulator stop power come in from the panel . 4 . Inverter . Batteries pump out power at 12V . The inverter convert the 12V into a voltage suitable for your house-hold appliance ( usually 220V or thereabouts ) . Watt ? You do n't know a volt from an amp ? So you 've get your basic solar power equipment . All well and good . However , trouble brew when you want to use appliance that need more power than your system can handle . This be where you a cursory amount of electrical knowledge go a long way . Volts = Electricitys equivalent to water pressure . The high the voltage the more electrical current flow . Amps ( current ) = Electrical flow rate Watts = How electrical power be measure . Voltage multiply by amp = Watts . I have a small inexpensive system ( cost a little over 1000 sterling ) with two 160 watt solar panel , two 200 watt battery , a600 watt inverter and a 20 amp regulator . But what do that MEAN ? 1 . I cant use any appliance , or group of appliance that be over 600 watt . The inverter cant handle it ( actually good to stay below about 300 watt ) . 2 . I cant use any appliance , or group of appliance that burn more than 20 amp . The regulator cant handle it . 3.There be a finite amount of power store in the battery . For the health of the battery the system function between 10.5 and 14.5 amp . That mean I have 4.5 amp to play with when the panel arent suck in light . So . . .At night time or after prolonged period of rain the battery will begin to run down . Basically , I need appliance of less than 50 watt . As a general rule , small motor and battery charger get the green light . However , anything that heat be a power-eater . I 've already give away my toaster . What I can use . Laptop computer . Normal computer . Printer , CD player . DVD player . Speakers with subwoofer . Mobile phone charger . Power drill battery charger . Power sander battery charger . Power jig-saw battery charger . LED light Normal light Standing lamp Lava/Tesla lamp , should I so desire ... Epilady ( This be mighty fine news ) . Electric razor . Small mini-bar type refrigerator . Electric cool box ( camp type ) Television . At just 7 Watts your epilady be still in business . What I ca n't use . Air conditioner . Kettle . Toaster . Electric hob . Washing machine . Large refrigerator . Freezer . Iron ( Someone remind me what the point of this appliance be ) . Curling tongs and hair straightener ( sorry Jeanette ) . Blender . Cappuccino machine . Waffle maker . Vacuum cleaner . A small solar system may require sacrifice . Wavy hair and waffle-less breakfast be just two of the downside . Is a small system worth it ? In conclusion , for people off the grid with not much spare cash , the two-panel , two-battery option be a great solution to power issue . Later , if you really cant do without your cappuccino machine , either your system can be upgrade , or you can create a separate system for that appliance . THE NEWSLETTER Earthbag Building Guide The Mountain Blog About Atulya Contact Atulya The Mud/Mudart/Mudhouse . Copyright 2013 An Atulya K Bingham site . 