What be a Smart Meter | Maryland Smart Meter Information from Delmarva Power Delmarva Power 's smart meter website be your informational resource to learn everything you need to know about your new smart meter . What be a Smart Meter ? Interact with the Smart Meter Communicates graphic below and review the smart meter benefit to learn more . Smart meter offer Delmarva Power residential and small business customer a number of benefit . They include : Take Control of Your Energy Use Data Smart meter enable you to view your home or small business electricity use in easy-to-read graph . Armed with a good understanding of your energy use , you can make inform decision on how to manage and control your electricity consumption . Smart meter will ensure that your energy bill be base on your actual , rather than estimate use . Smart meter will reduce the need for Delmarva Power meter reader to come to your home . New feature will enable remote meter reading . For landlord , there will be the add convenience of get an accurate reading for renter . Opportunities to Save Money While detail data be not a guarantee of save energy or money , smart meter give you the power to review and evaluate your energy use and take control of the thing you can change . Outage Detection Smart meter allow for fast outage detection if an outage occur . Improved Customer Service Information from your smart meter will enable Delmarva Power representatives to good answer your question about your personal energy use , should you ever need to contact u for assistance . Environmental Benefits Remote reading reduces the number of Delmarva Power vehicle and truck on the road , which in turn help reduce carbon emission . Smart meter be the key to great energy efficiency , reduce the need to build power plant , and reduce the use of old , less efficient power plant which typically have high greenhouse gas and other air emission . What be a smart meter ? A smart meter , like the old meter attach to your home , apartment or small business , measure the amount of energy you use for thing such a lighting , cook , heating and cool . Those measurement be use to calculate your electric bill each month . But that be about the only thing the old meter and the new smart meter have in common . Your old meter be read once a month by a meter reader or perhaps estimate for your billing . Along with other benefit we explain below , the new smart meter actually measure the energy use in your home or small business periodically throughout the day and communicate that information to Delmarva Power . That capture data be available to you online by signing up for My Account . Why be this data important to me ? What happens today when you receive a high than expect energy bill ? You might wonder what change in your usual pattern . Was it during the first week of this month when the kid be home from college ? Was it from the new big screen TV you just purchase ? On the other hand , what if your bill suddenly go down ? Could the new energy-efficient washer or refrigerator you purchase have make the difference ? The new smart meter will provide you with detailed information and comparison report to help you identify when you be use more or less energy during the day , the week or the month . This information will also help you make change that let you take control of your energy bill . When you need to talk to a representative from Delmarva Power , this information will help u provide you with good customer service . What else will the smart meter do for me ? The new smart meter provide two-way communication between your home or small business and Delmarva Power and also from Delmarva Power to you . Why be I get a smart meter ? Delmarva Power and the State of Maryland be work together with the citizen of the state to help meet energy efficiency goal , and smart meter be a critical part of that effort . Maryland be at 