Home air condition problem - Green Energy Efficient Homes Home About me Get in touch Basics Energy efficient home Energy saving fact Energy saving idea Energy saving benefit Energy saving plan Energy saving checklist Upgrades Window covering Window blind Sun tube Icynene insulation Infrared heat gun Heating duct insulation More Appliances Dehumidifiers Freezers Energy saving tool Dryers Refrigerator energy usage Efficient washer & dryer More Light LED light Outdoor LED light Recycling fluorescent bulb Fluorescent garage light Turn off light LED under cabinet light How fluorescent light work Energy efficient fluorescent light Heat Electric heater Most efficient Crawl space heater Coleman electric furnace Carrier furnace Electric heater rating More Cool Central AC unit AC problem Intertherm AC system Best AC temperature Air conditioner mister Window AC unit More Electricity Solar electricity Energy saving capacitor Leaving thing plug in The Kill-A-Watt meter How to save electricity Electricity price Green electricity Negawatts Hot water Electric shower head Electric hot water tank Point of use water heater Portable water heater Shower head valve FAQ Best air conditioner Best space heater Best new furnace Heating vent on outside wall Freezer in garage More Shop Room air conditioner Space heater Home air condition problem You be here : Home / Home air condition problem Troubleshoot yourself ? Or call a pro Some home air condition problem be easy to solve yourself . If there no power to your compressor there may be an easy fix . For other issue , youre better to hire a qualify technician . After all , it not worth saving $ 100 on a service call with a do-it-yourself home air conditioner repair , only to discover youve wreck the system . Youll find the common air conditioning problem I describe below both easy to troubleshoot and often easy to solve . Remember that , especially for a central air condition unit , you should have your system service annually by a qualified HVAC technician , and you should use such a technician to resolve any problem where the cause and solution be not both obvious . Air conditioner wont turn on Air conditioner cycle on and off frequently ( short cycle ) Air conditioner run constantly but doesnt cool well Air conditioner run but doesnt cool at all One of the big home energy waster be an air conditioner that isnt work properly . By helping you diagnose some of the simple problem and urge you to go to the pro when there isnt an easy diagnosis or solution I can help you save energy and money . Youll save energy if your current system work properly . Youll save money by not ruin a perfectly good system when you try to solve air condition problem youre not qualify to solve . This bear repeat : Do not try to fix an air conditioner problem if you arent sure you understand the cause , or the solution . Air conditioner wont turn on First check this Green Energy Efficient Homes Lets look first at problem with central air conditioner , then room unit . Air conditioner wont turn on central air For a central air condition system , the key thing to look for are problem with power , fan , thermostat , noise , coolant pressure , condensate drainage , and startup time . Also , you may have a PeakSaver or similar energy save device instal and not realize that it work properly ! Power : Most central AC system be on a separate circuit breaker , often a double switch . Many people flip this circuit breaker off at the start of the heating season , to prevent someone from accidentally start the AC unit at a time when cool be never need . So check that this circuit breaker be turn on . If it be turn on , turn it off then back on ( sometimes the switch have trip but be close enough to the on position that it seem to be on already ) . This be one of the most common air conditioning problem accord to technician Ive spoken to so check your circuit breaker ! In many jurisdiction , a breaker may be require within a short distance from the outdoor compressor unit . If you still cant get power to the compressor , check for this circuit breaker either inside your house near where the wiring exit the house , or on the outside of the house near the compressor unit . Try flicking that breaker off and back on a well . Fix-It-Yourself : Repair , clean & maintain anything around your home About $ 24 If either the panel breaker or the compressor breaker circuit trip off after you try use the AC again , dont flip it back on call a qualified technician . There may be a serious electrical problem that need to be look at by a professional . If you have a combine central AC and force air furnace system , the circuit that feed your furnace should also be on , because the furnace fan need to run to circulate the cool air . Check this circuit a well , use the same process of turn the breaker off and back on . The furnace circuit could be control both by a circuit breaker on your breaker panel , and possibly by a wall switch in the furnace room . Check both . I have such a wall switch and use tape to keep it in the correct position ( on during heating/cooling season , off in spring and fall ) , to prevent someone from mistake it for a light switch and accidentally turn it off during the heating/cooling season . Another thing to check be that the fan be run . If you set the fan set on your thermostat to on instead of auto , you should hear the furnace fan start to run even if the air conditioner doesnt turn on . If the fan doesnt turn on , this be an indication no current be get to your furnace . Then check this Lux Programmable Thermostat About $ Try setting the thermostat a low a it can go ( remember to turn it back afterwards ! ) . Its possible that the thermostat control be not work properly . I once have to turn my AC down to 49F ( 9C ) to get the compressor to kick in ! That be clearly the sign of a faulty thermostat . If your thermostat be a programmable thermostat such a the one picture at right , check that it show some indication of be on ! If you cant see anything on the LCD display , there may not be any power get to the thermostat . This could be because the DC line power the thermostat be off , or because the furnace be switch off . Compressor make no noise : When you run the AC your window and door tend to be ( and should be ! ) close . Make sure your assumption that the compressor be off isnt just you not hear the noise through close door and windows . In some central air unit , the compressor ( outdoor ) unit have a high pressure cut out , which stop the unit if the coolant pressure get too high . The high pressure cut out button stick out of the cabinet , near the coolant line . Press this button in to reset it . If the button pop back out soon after the unit start up , call a technician to have the refrigerant level check . Dont keep try and hope the problem go away ! Then get out the glove The evaporator unit in a central air condition system need to drain condense water that collect on the coil . Two common problem be that the condensate drain may be block , or , if the system use a condensate pump , the pump be not work . If condensate be not properly drain , check that the condensate drain be clear and that water can flow freely down it , and if the system have a condensate pump check that it be plug in and work . PeakSaver : In some area ( such a my home town of Toronto ) you can get a modest rebate from your utility if you allow them to install a device call a PeakSaver on your air conditioner . This may be the cause of an air conditioner not turn on . During a heat wave , when everyones AC unit run at full blast , there be huge spike in demand that can stretch the electrical grid to the limit . Utilities offer these free device to homeowner to reduce this stress on the grid . The device periodically reduce power to your compressor during peak demand period , so that everyones air conditioner be not run at the same time . In most case this wont affect your indoor comfort level over the space of a day , but it can be disconcert when you turn on your AC upon get home , and it doesnt kick in for a while . ( Typically a PeakSaver will not cycle your air conditioner off for more than 15 minute . ) Finally , be patient . Sometimes it can take a minute or two for the compressor to start up . If the system routinely take a long time to start up , have your unit service . If none of these tip solve your home air condition problem , call a technician . Its not worth the risk to your AC unit or your own safety to try tinkering . If your central air conditioner be show sign of wear and tear and be more than 10 year old , or have fail repeatedly , you might want to spare yourself the expense of another service call , and instead consider get a replacement unit . ( Most HVAC contractor provide free estimate , but almost none provide free service call on an exist unit , unless it be cover by an extended warranty or service contract . ) You can find a qualify service technician to solve your home air condition problem by go through the QualitySmith website . They can also arrange for free quote from up to three different HVAC company in your neighborhood , for the purchase and installation of a new air condition system . It take about one minute to sign up with QualitySmith , and their team will connect you with qualified company who do air conditioner repair or installation in your area . Room air conditioner wont turn on Check for obvious cause of this air conditioning problem : be it plug in ? Is the outlet live ? Has the selector switch inside the unit trip ? To check if the outlet be live , plug in a lamp or other device that indicate power . Remember that a room air conditioner draw a fair bit of power and if your house be poorly wire or there be several high-amperage load on the same circuit , the air conditioner or some other device may have trip the circuit . Check the circuit breaker panel if the outlet appear dead . Flip the circuit back on if it be off . If turn on the AC unit cause the circuit to flip off again , do not reset it there may be a short in the window unit , or there may be a problem with your house wire . Try plugging the AC unit into a different outlet where you know there be no other load on it and the amperage of the circuit be adequate . If it trip that circuit , it be likely a short in the unit and the unit need to be repair or replace . If it do not trip the other circuit , the original circuit may be too low amperage , or may have other load that be consume too much power . Check for a tripped selector switch or break or corrode internal wiring on the window unit . First , unplug the air conditioner , then check that you really unplug it ! Your window unit should have a selector switch close to where the power cord enters the unit . Remove the front panel from the unit and check that the switch have not trip . If it have trip , try flip it back on , replace the cover , plug the unit back in , and try run it again . If it trip again , this be not a problem you can fix yourself ; the unit need to be service . Also check for any fray or loose wire ( again , only do this after unplugging the unit ) . Have the unit service if you see any loose wire or sign of corrosion or burn or expose metal along insulate wire . If your unit have a dial to control temperature , check that turn the dial actually turn the control it attach to . If the dial can turn continuously for several revolution it be probably not turn the underlie control . Beyond these simple , easily diagnose home air condition problem , a room air conditioner not turn on may mean it time to get it service . If the unit be more than five year old , show sign of corrosion on the fin , or be a cheap , inefficient air conditioner to start with , you be probably well off buying a new energy efficient window ac unit instead of pay to have the unit service . Air conditioner cycle on and off frequently ( short cycle ) A unit that cycle on and off frequently ( also call short cycling ) can be an indication of a unit that be oversized for the cool work it need to do , or an indication that the thermostat be be directly cool by the unit or by a cooling register . If your unit have always cycle frequently , it be probably oversized for the cool work it need to do . An oversized air conditioner cool the air condition space rapidly , so that the thermostat shuts the unit off quickly . The air condition space may warm slowly or more quickly depend on insulation , outdoor temperature and other factor , but typically an oversized system will cycle on and off with short period where the compressor run , and long period where it do not . If the unit start cycle frequently in the last few day , there be three possibility : you be cool less space than you use to ( and have thereby make the unit oversized for the work it now do ) ; there be poor air circulation around the coil and so they be ice up , cause the unit to shut down until the ice thaw ; or there be a problem with the refrigerant . A space can suddenly become oversized if you have close off a portion of the space . For example , if you have a central air conditioner and you decide to close off the register in room that arent use ( such a spare bedroom ) , the air conditioner may be short cycling because it be cool the remain room too quickly . If you have a room air conditioner that you move from one room to a small room , or you use to use the unit with the room door open and now the room door be keep close , you have essentially make the unit cool a small space and it may be oversized for that space . Rapid cycling can also be cause by refrigerant problem such a low level of refrigerant ( which usually mean a leak ) , too high a level of refrigerant ( which usually mean it be overcharge when the system be instal or last service ) ; or the wrong type of refrigerant . Finally , if there be a cold air vent that blow air directly onto your thermostat , or the room your thermostat be locate in be small and close in , that space may cool more rapidly than the rest of the house when the air conditioner kick in , which will then cause the thermostat to shut the air conditioner off . If you be unable to determine a cause for short cycling , you should consult a professional for further advice . You may need to get a technician onsite to have your unit refrigerant level check and potentially replenish . Other possible cause of short cycling be clog or dirty coil , dirty or damaged fin on the condenser unit , or damage to the condenser unit motor or blade . Air conditioner run constantly but doesnt cool well Units that run continuously without cool much be one of the most common home air condition problem . This symptom can indicate low refrigerant level , generally poor efficiency due to the age of the unit , or a system that be undersized relative to the space it need to cool . It can also indicate an extreme difference in temperature between the outdoor and indoor air . If your air conditioner be run constantly and there an extreme heat wave , dont be too surprise . Its good to be uncomfortable a few day a year with an air condition unit that be correctly size for typical condition , than to install an oversized air conditioner that can handle the extreme , but have the unit short cycle and wear itself out on more moderate day . One easy test be to see if the air conditioner be produce cool air , or any air at all . For a central air unit , check that you can feel cold air blow out the vent . If the unit be run constantly but airflow be weak , you may have a problem with your ventilator fan , your ductwork ( excessive air leakage in the duct , excessive dust or debris buildup , damage duct ) , the AC or furnace filter , or something a simple a a duct baffle that have not be switch from the winter to the summer position . Check for each of these a possible cause . If you have not have your duct clean in more than a year and dust be visible when you remove heat register , it be probably time to have your duct clean again . If your duct be leak or damaged , you should have them repair ; this will save you much of the electricity your air conditioner now use . Check the duct around your furnace and look for a baffle lever with summer and winter or heat and air indicator sometimes just write in permanent marker on the ductwork . Make sure the baffle be in the summer position . If that doesnt solve the airflow problem , call a technician for a professional assessment . If the airflow be good and cold air be come through the vent , the probable cause be poor insulation or air leakage in the room be cool . The air conditioner be work a design but too much heat be flow in from the outside , give the air conditioner an impossible task . The location of your compressor ( outside unit ) may be a factor in how efficiently a central air conditioner , or indeed a window air conditioner , cool your air condition space . If your central AC be bury underneath a porch so that air flow be severely restrict , you will get little to no cooling out of it . ( This may sound like an impossible scenario but it how my own AC system come when I buy the house , because they instal the compressor unit in the garden , and late built a back deck over it ! ) Hire an HVAC company to move the compressor unit out into the yard where it have good air flow . You can get three free quote from qualified HVAC contractor in your area by use the QualitySmith specialist referral service . Air conditioner foam insulate panel About $ 11 For a window air conditioner , if the outside of the unit be near a heat source ( such a the hot exhaust from a neighbor central AC compressor or the heat radiate off a hot roof ) or be expose to direct sunlight , it will be far less efficient than if it be in a shaded area with good air circulation . Also for a window air conditioner , make sure the unit be properly seal against the window frame . While small gap be unlikely to make a noticeable difference in the overall cooling effect of the unit while it running , these gap can allow both heat and moisture from out of door into the room . The unit then need to work hard to remove not only the heat but all that extra moisture . Air conditioner run but doesnt cool at all If the airflow be good and the air come out be not cold , your problem may be temporary your coil may have freeze . Turn the unit off for an hour to let them thaw , then try again . If cold air be now present , freeze coil be the problem ; if the problem recurs soon after turn on , you may need to replace the coil . Again , call a professional . If you have ceiling vent in upstairs room and the air flow from them be consistently warm , you probably have leaky or poorly insulate ductwork in your attic . See my Attic ceiling insulation page for more information on insulate ductwork that run through attic . Another likely home air condition problem if you have good airflow but no cooling be that the breaker to the outside unit be shut off , which , depend on the installation , can either cause the air condition system to not run at all , or to appear to be run but not provide any cooling . If you can hear the compressor fan run outside , the breaker be on , but if the outside unit be silent the outside breaker may be off . If switch it on do not solve the problem , look for the high pressure cut out on the condenser and try reset that . When to call the pro I cant emphasize enough the importance of know what home air condition problem you can fix yourself , and what requires professional assistance . For window air conditioner , you can take the unit to a local repair shop . If it a $ 99 big box special and be not work properly , it probably cheap to replace it with a new window AC unit than to pay a technicial to repair it . For central air conditioner , beyond simple thing such a checking the circuit breaker , condensate drain , and thermostat , you risk make the problem worse , not good , if you try to fix it yourself . Whenever youre unsure , call your HVAC technician , or use the QualitySmith referral service to get a qualify company to solve your problem . A service call be cheap if you havent first made the original problem worse . 0 reply Leave a Reply Want to join the discussion ? Feel free to contribute ! Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be publish . Required field be mark * Name * Email * Website Comment You can use basic HTML tag such a < b > , < i > , < p > and so on . Posts contain < a > or `` href= '' be not allow . Recent Comments Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Crawl space heater Christine on Crawl space heater Green Energy Efficient Homes Inc. 2014 . Privacy policy | Disclaimer . 