Air Conditioners | Home & Central Air Conditioning Units | American Standard Home Mobile Home Contact Us For Dealers For Builders /how-to-buy/find-your-dealer.html Products Product Selector Tell u about your home and your need , and we 'll help you find the best system for you . Product Selector Heating and Cooling Air Conditioners Air Handlers Coils Furnaces Heat Pumps Geothermal Packaged System Ductless Thermostat Controls Add On Components Air Quality Zoning Nexia Home Intelligence Light Commercial How to Buy Promotions & Rebates Let u help you through the process of finding a dealer and purchase a new system . Promotions Purchasing Process About Pricing Financing Promotions and Rebates About Customer Care Dealers Before Contacting A Dealer Find Your Dealer Why Us Testimonials Let u tell you more about American Standard Air and to purchase from u . Read Testimonials Home Comfort Reliability Sustainability History Testimonials Resources Glossary Let u tell you more about HVAC and how you can save with an American Standard Air product . Go to Glossary HVAC Basics Save on Energy Costs Energy Star Glossary For Your Home Owner Support Symptom Checker Let u help you sort through any issue that you may experience with your HVAC system . Symptom Checker Maintenance Symptom Checker Warranty & Registration Close Send an email * Required * Recipient 's Email * Your Name * Your Email Message Submit Cancel Thank you ! Your email have be send . Home Products Heating and Cooling Air Conditioners Filter by : AccuLink Communicating System No ( 7 ) Yes ( 3 ) Comfort-R Humidity Control No ( 4 ) Yes ( 6 ) Cooling stage allow the air conditioner compressor to run at a very high level for hot summer day and at a low level for milder day . Cooling Stages No ( 2 ) Single-stage ( 1 ) Single-stage ( most model ) ( 5 ) Two stage ( 2 ) SEER efficiency ( up to ) 13.25 ( 1 ) 14 ( 1 ) 14.75 ( 1 ) 16 ( 2 ) 17 ( 1 ) 18 ( 1 ) 18.5 ( 1 ) 20 ( 2 ) Clear Filters Air Conditioners Stay cool and comfortable when it heat up outside with a central air conditioner you can rely on . Our home air conditioner keep your home cool on the hot day with reliability and efficiency you can count on year after year . Your filter option do not appear to match any of our product . Try removing a filter and search again . AccuComfort Variable Speed Platinum 20 Air Conditioner A system that work smart . Our AccuComfort Variable Speed Platinum 20 Air Conditioner come with AccuComfort technology that allow the system to consistently adjust to run at a more efficient speed to maintain your personal level of comfort . Plus , with up to a 21.00 SEER rating , this A/C system be one of the most efficient multi-stage cool unit on the market . Up to 21.00 SEER Multi-staged cooling with maximum comfort and humidity control Quietest operation compare to nearest competitor Watch a quick video to learn more . Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Platinum ZM Air Conditioner This top-of-the-line central air conditioner feature two-stage cooling and help you save up to 60 percent on your cooling energy usage . * High-efficiency air conditioner Multi-staged cooling with maximum comfort and humidity control Quiet operation Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price AccuComfort Variable Speed Platinum 18 Air Conditioner Stay cool . Our AccuComfort Variable Speed Platinum 18 Air Conditioning System come with AccuComfort technology that allow the system to consistently adjust to run at a more efficient speed . Plus , with up to 18.00 SEER , this variable-speed A/C be one of the most efficient home air conditioner on the market . High efficiency rating Multi-staged cooling with maximum comfort and humidity control Quietest operation compare to nearest competitor Watch a quick video to learn more . Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Gold 17 Air Conditioner This home cool system 's design keep you comfortable , thanks to generous two-step cooling . Plus , with rating up to 18.00 SEER , this central air system provide incredible energy efficiency save you on operate cost . Superior efficiency Multi-staged cooling with maximum comfort and humidity control Quiet operation Need a Quote ? Talk to one of our dealer . Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Gold XI Air Conditioner Get efficient performance with this energy-efficient air conditioner that may qualify for an energy tax credit . ** Built with you in mind , this home air condition system 's durable design will help you beat the heat year after year . Excellent efficiency Consistent comfort Quiet operation Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Silver 14 Air Conditioner The late introduction to our air condition line , provide homeowner with excellent comfort and saving . The Silver 14 's design provide your home with the reliable cooling you would expect from American Standard and the efficiency you require from a new central air condition unit . Excellent efficiency Single-stage cool with consistent comfort Quiet operation Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Silver 13 Air Conditioner With the Silver 13 central air condition unit , you do not need to sacrifice impressive comfort for energy saving . This A/C system 's design provide your home with the reliable cooling you would expect from American Standard and the efficiency you deserve from a new central air condition unit . Excellent efficiency Single-stage cool and consistent comfort Quiet operation Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Silver XI Air Conditioner This Silver XI home air condition system come with the reliability you expect from American Standard and the comfort and saving your home need . Built with you in mind , this central air condition system 's durable design will help you beat the heat year after year . Solid efficiency Consistent comfort through single-stage cooling Peace of mind that 's easy on your wallet Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Silver SI Air Conditioner The Silver SI central air conditioner come with the reliability you expect from American Standard and the comfort your home deserves . Built with this in mind , this centrail air conditioner 's design help deliver even cool to every room in your house . Solid efficiency Consistent comfort through single-stage cooling Peace of mind that 's easy on your wallet Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Silver Series SI Air Conditioner Reliable American Standard Heating & Air Conditioning at it most affordable . Solid efficiency Consistent comfort through single-stage cooling Peace of mind that 's easy on your wallet Compare Your home comfort shouldnt be disruptive . American Standard system work smarter to keep your home temperature consistent . Comfort From ENERGY STAR -qualified product to geothermal option , there be myriad way for your HVAC system to be more energy and cost-efficient . Efficiency One size doesnt always fit alland neither do pricing . Visit our pricing page to learn more . Price Air Conditioners Compare up to 5 product . Compare Cancel 2013 American Standard Privacy Policy Terms of Use Site Map News Room 