The Coalition Government 's plan to tackle climate change , reduce emission and reduce pressure on electricity price - Paper to the carbon market institute Workshop , 24 October 2013 Search The Hon . Greg Hunt MP Minister for the Environment Home Media release 2015 2014 2013 Speeches & transcript 2015 2014 2013 Parliamentary Secretary You be here : Minister Speeches & transcript : 2013| 2014 | 2015 The Hon . Greg Hunt MP Minister for the Environment The Coalition Government 's plan to tackle climate change , reduce emission and reduce pressure on electricity price Paper to the Carbon Market Institute Workshop , Melbourne 24 October 2013 Download speech The Coalition Government 's plan to tackle climate change , reduce emission and reduce pressure on electricity price ( PDF - 352 KB ) Introduction Thank you for come here today . I appreciate the opportunity to speak with you about the Coalition Government 's plan to tackle climate change and reduce pressure on electricity price . Let me set out the point of bipartisan agreement in this area : We agree on the science We agree on the target We agree on market mechanism We disagree , absolutely , on what be the right market mechanism . The idea that a punitive electricity tax be the right approach have be unequivocally reject by the Australian people at the recent election . If ever there be a problem require new solution to be unearth , it be climate change . The fact be that climate change be drive by greenhouse gas emission , and these emission be a by-product of the thing that improve our quality of life . We have all become accustom to the benefit that power , transport and agriculture have bring to our life . It would be a backward step for u to forego those benefit ourselves , or to deprive them from the people of develop nation . This mean we need new technology and innovation that will allow u to achieve these same benefit but without the accompany greenhouse gas emission . In my view , this be a problem that be tailor-made for a genuine , light touch , market-based solution , not a heavy , deep punitive electricity tax , no matter what it be call . For this reason , I be very glad to be talk to you today about the market-based mechanism that Australia will employ so that we can harness those new innovation , and do our fair share in solving this global problem . Before go any further , I think it be important to restate the Government 's position on climate change very clearly . We accept that climate change be real . We accept that human be contribute to it . We accept the need for action . We believe that act with other country to tackle climate change be critical to Australia 's future . Australia will exercise a constructive role in international climate change negotiation . We remain commit to reducing Australia 's emission by five per cent below 2000 level by 2020 . This be a bipartisan commitment . In other word , we agree with our parliamentary opponent on what Australia 's fair contribution should be within an international response . What we do not agree on , however , be the form our domestic policy should take to drive our response to climate change . And in this the Coalition Government be not alone . Today I want to address the Government 's approach in three phase , firstly the international context , secondly the repeal of the Carbon Tax and thirdly the Emissions Reduction Fund . 1. International Approaches The starting point for any international assessment be the finding of Australia 's Productivity Commission that : `` no country currently impose an economy wide tax on greenhouse emission or have in place an economy-wide ETS 1 . '' While the ALP might claim that carbon tax and emission trading scheme be the only way to tackle climate change , this be simply not correct . A look at the international situation reveals a very different picture . I have previously cover the limit role carbon tax play in reducing emission . Today I want to discuss the world that be , not how some would imagine it to be . 1.1 . Direct Action Internationally There be a variety of active international approach to directly reduce emission . First , there be direct abatement purchase . Norway 's Commercial Carbon Procurement Program purchase abatement credit worth million of dollar through a competitive tender process . Japan be establish it Joint Credit Mechanism which will help it to meet it emission reduction target by purchase direct abatement and funding low-carbon technology diffusion through bilateral agreement with develop country . Agreements to purchase abatement have be make with Bangladesh , Ethiopia , Indonesia , Laos , Kenya , the Maldives , Mongolia and Vietnam . Further , the United Nations Clean Development Mechanism ( CDM ) operate a an abatement procurement scheme . It have register over 7,000 project and generate over 1.4 billion tonne of abatement for market-based purchase . Second , the European Union , Russia , South Africa and the United States , among many others , all employ energy efficiency measure to abate carbon emission . In the United Kingdom residential building sector , all new home build from 2016 will need to have zero emission for heating , hot water , cool and light . Under the Korean Target Management Scheme , around 500 large-emitting entity be require to meet energy efficiency target . Third , there be renewable energy target in Europe , and country a varied a China , India , Russia , Brazil , Indonesia , Mexico , South Korea , Vietnam and New Zealand , a well a 30 US state . Mexico have a goal of 35 per cent of electricity from renewable energy source by 2024 . There be energy intensity and efficiency target and scheme in country such a China , India , Indonesia , Japan , New Zealand , Thailand , Turkey and the US . New Zealand have an economy-wide energy intensity improvement target of 1.3 per cent annually to 2016 . Fourth , to tackle vehicle emission , the US , the EU , Canada and Thailand all rely on emission standard . The EU emission standard for car aim for a fleet-wide average of 130 gram of carbon dioxide per km in 2015 and 95 gram of carbon dioxide per kilometre in 2020 . Fleet-wide emission be currently on track to meet the 2015 target . Meanwhile Canada be progressively implement regulatory fuel economy and emission standard for new car and truck ( mirror US rule ) . In the power generation sector , regulatory standard for power station have be tighten in the US and Canada . Regulatory standard for coal-fired power plant in Canada will start from 2015 and be expect to reduce emission by 41 million tonne of carbon dioxide in 2020 from 2005 level , accord to Environment Canada . Last but not least , forest emission reduction target have be implement in Brazil , Indonesia , and Mexico . In addition , Indonesia 's Presidential Regulation on the National Action Plan require each Province to create mitigation plan in the forestry , peatland and agriculture sector , among others . 1.2 . Australia 's Abatement Challenge By comparison , when you look at what have be project to happen under the Carbon Tax , it be clear that the policy be flaw . We know that here in Australia under the Carbon Tax our domestic emission have be predict to go up , not down . The previous Government 's own modelling from December 2012 , which it submit to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change , show that our emission increase under the Carbon Tax from around 560 million tonne in 2010 to 637 million tonne in 2020 . The most recent Quarterly Update of Australia 's National Greenhouse Gas Inventory report release by my Department today reveals that our emission in the year to March 2013 be estimate to be 557 million tonne - exactly the same level a the previous year . This be despite the previous Government estimating that the Carbon Tax would raise an average of $ 9 billion a year over the first three year . Let me reiterate that : a multi-billion dollar cost to Australia 's economy for no change in domestic emission and project emission of 637 million tonne domestically by 2020 . Under the Carbon Tax , Australia will not be able to meet it five per cent reduction target at a reasonable cost without relying heavily on internationally-sourced carbon credit . Given that the previous Government 's modelling indicate that the price in 2020 will be $ 38 a tonne , this be an annual purchase of approximately $ 3.8 billion of international permit in 2020 alone . There be a simple reason why the Carbon Tax fail in it fundamental task of reduce emission : it be the wrong market mechanism for this particular problem . At it heart the Carbon Tax be an electricity tax . And because electricity be an essential service , in economic term it be a highly inelastic good . One recent international study find that electricity consumption be highly inelastic in both the United States and the EU . The study find that a 10 per cent increase in electricity price would produce only a 2-2.5 per cent reduction in emission from residential electricity consumption . The Commonwealth Treasury 's own modelling us an elasticity estimate of around three per cent . In other word , electricity pricing be a blunt and inefficient mechanism for change household energy-use behaviour 2 . The simple fact be that where there be no ready substitution and the cost of switch to an alternative or mitigate be high , high price just become a tax . And there be nowhere that this be truer than in the essential service that be electricity . A failure to understand this explains why the Carbon Tax so badly fail it own test of reduce emission . 2 . Carbon Tax Repeal For the reason outline above , the Coalition take to the election a clear and unequivocal pledge to repeal the Carbon Tax . We believe the Carbon Tax be clearly the wrong mechanism to tackle climate change . That be why the repeal of the Carbon Tax will be the first order of business of the new parliament . We expect that when it come to the crunch , the ALP should not and will not ignore the Coalition 's overwhelming mandate for this necessary and important reform . There be already report of division within the ALP rank over whether to fight the repeal legislation . It be time for the ALP to accept the express wish of the Australian people and the outcome of the election . We learn from Work Choices . They have yet to learn from the Carbon Tax . Repealing the Carbon Tax will lower cost for Australian business and manufacturer , boost growth , increase job and ease cost of living pressure for household . Crucially , it will take the pressure off electricity and gas price . On average , household will be around $ 550 well off in 2014 15 than they would have be with the carbon tax in place . Last week we release the draft Carbon Tax repeal bill for public consideration . Individuals and business have until November 4 to make a submission on the bill . There be at least twenty currently schedule business and community consultation in that period . The bill will not only remove the Carbon Tax , they will also remove the Carbon Tax equivalent on fuel use in shipping , rail and air transport and on synthetic greenhouse gas . Under the draft legislation , the Carbon Tax will end on June 30 , 2014 . No matter when the bill pass , they will take effect on 30 June 2014 . The repeal bill be robust to all scenario and will ensure that 30 June 2014 be the final date for Carbon Tax liability . This simplifies the transition for business and give complete certainty about future liability . Liable entity must still pay all Carbon Tax liability incur up to 30 June 2014 . Carbon Tax liability report for the 2013-14 year will also need to be complete . In fact emission report arrangement will continue and will - in the future - support the work of the Emissions Reduction Fund . Under the legislation , the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will be give further power to take action against business that engage in price exploitation follow the repeal of the Carbon Tax . Carbon tax industry assistance , include the Jobs and Competitiveness Program , will continue until 30 June 2014 to assist affect business . It will not extend beyond that because there will be no need for it . 3 . Achieving Australia 's Emissions Target through Direct Action In tandem with the abolition of the Carbon Tax , the Coalition Government will implement it Direct Action plan to reduce Australia 's domestic emission by five per cent below 2000 level by 2020 . The good news be that we believe this task will now be easy than have previously be think . Preliminary figure from my Department indicate that our abatement challenge be now around 440 million tonne to 2020 rather than the 750 million tonne assume before the election . The revise figure be due to a range of factor , most particularly reduce emission in the industrial and manufacture sector a a consequence of the collapse in overseas demand and change in the land and forestry sector , a well a our carryover from the first Kyoto period . These be preliminary figure and further work be be done by my Department incorporating the late National Inventory figure . I plan to release the 2013 Australia 's Emissions Projections report in December . Suffice to say , we be now more confident than ever that we will be able to meet our emission reduction target through our Direct Action plan . Direct Action encompasses , among other thing , support for solar power through our million roof program and plan to green our urban area through our 20 million tree initiative . However the centrepiece of Direct Action be a market-based mechanism for reducing carbon dioxide emission - the Emissions Reduction Fund . Through this Fund , we will provide a powerful and direct incentive for business across the Australian economy to work with the Government to reduce their emission . In short , the Emissions Reduction Fund will use incentive for positive action to create a market for abatement , and this will be far more effective at reducing Australia 's emission than the Carbon Tax . 3.1 . Emissions Reduction Fund Structure I set out much of the Fund 's structure prior to the election , but allow me to briefly recap . The Fund will 'buy back ' abatement via a reverse auction . This be a well-established market mechanism that will allow the Government to achieve it environmental outcome while minimise cost . By buying up the 'abatement cost curve ' , we will provide powerful incentive for business to bring forward the low cost emission reduction project . The Fund will create a market for abatement in the same way that the National Water Market System have create a market for water . The latter system also rely on a reverse auction and have prove effective in allowing the Government to minimise it cost while achieve additional water flow . There be no need to tax the economy a a whole . The important thing be to focus on the gap and then purchase the reduction necessary to fill that gap . One of the question I 'm often ask be `` where will the emission reduction come from ? '' This be never clear under the Carbon Tax . By contrast , under Direct Action the low cost abatement may involve a whole range of project include those to clean up waste coal mine gas , clean up power station or to capture landfill gas . It may be a mix of energy efficiency improvement in Australian household , commercial building and industrial facility . It may be reafforestation of marginal land , or revegetation , or improvement of soil carbon . The important thing be not where the abatement be achieve , but that it be real , measurable and additional to business-as-usual . We be not be prescriptive about where the emission reduction will come from . In fact we be keen to unlock abatement opportunity across all of the Australian economy . To illustrate the difference in approach between the Emissions Reduction Fund and the Carbon Tax , let me do a short comparison . Under the Carbon Tax , the brown coal power station be give the bulk of $ 5.5 billion in cash and free permit . No substantiative action be require in return for the $ 5.5 billion . Almost all of the Carbon Tax be then pass on to household and business in the form of high electricity price . By comparison , the Emissions Reduction Fund will create positive incentive for industry to innovate and invest in new technology to reduce their emission through access to a pool of capital . There be already highly promise work underway into low emission brown coal technology . These be technology that could be available before the end of the decade . An incentive-based approach be more likely to move u along the pathway towards the development of these technology than an electricity tax . There be also technology that have far potential to capture emission stream to produce algal liquid fuel and other product . While we will only purchase the low cost abatement , these be the type of innovation the Fund could unlock in just one sector . In short , it have be largely business a usual under the Carbon Tax for brown coal power station . Under Direct Action , however , there be real prospect of increase efficiency and clean up electricity generate from brown coal under an incentive-based scheme . Rather than drive up the price of electricity , which be the outcome of the Carbon Tax , we aim to reduce the cost of low emission source of electricity through incentive rather than penalty . This be the fundamental difference between the two approach one raise electricity price , reduces competitiveness and result in emission increase . The other provides incentive to achieve actual domestic emission reduction . 3.2 . Emissions Reduction Fund Costs Unlike the multi-billion dollar a year Carbon Tax , the Emissions Reduction Fund be modest and capped in cost . Indeed it be critical to remember that less than three month ago the ALP predict that the Carbon Tax , even if rename a an ETS , would soar 50 per cent to $ 38 dollar a tonne within a few short year . In contrast the Emissions Reduction Fund will have an initial allocation of $ 300 million , $ 500 million and $ 750 million over the forward estimate period . 3.3 . Emissions Reduction Fund Design Principles I 'd like to take a few moment to go through the three high level design principle that will guide the development of the Fund . Environmental integrity First , project support by the Fund can only contribute towards Australia 's international target if the emission reduction have environmental integrity . To have environmental integrity project must meet two critical criterion : Emissions reduction must be `` additional '' to business-as-usual . Projects pay for by the Fund must go beyond what would have occur in the normal course of business . They can not be require under exist regulatory requirement . Emissions reduction must be genuine - they must be credibly and conservatively estimate and must be verify . Lowest cost emission reduction Second , the Emissions Reduction Fund should be design to encourage project deliver low cost abatement . By purchase the low cost emission reduction available , we will be able to maximise the emission reduction that can be deliver within the Fund 's budget . This will provide confidence that Australia can meet it international emission target . The design of the reverse auction process will be critical in delivering on this objective . Streamlined administration Third , the Emissions Reduction Fund should involve streamline administration . Simple , clear and transparent rule will help to keep administrative cost low and ensure that business , landholder and other stakeholder can easily participate . Critically , we will use architecture that be already in place and work well , such a the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System , the Carbon Farming Initiative and the Clean Energy Regulator . 3.4 . Emissions Reduction Fund Terms of Reference It be now one month since the new Government be swear in . On day one , the Prime Minister instruct the public service to begin preparing legislation to repeal the Carbon Tax . The day after the release of the Carbon Tax repeal bill , we release the Terms of Reference that will guide the consultation process for the design of the Emissions Reduction Fund . In releasing the Terms of Reference , we be invite submission on : what emission reduction opportunity could be unlock by the Fund how key feature , such a the auction , baseline and contract arrangement , can be best design , and how transitional issue could be manage , include for exist participant under the Carbon Farming Initiative . Submissions from business and the broad community will inform the development of a Green Paper in December 2013 . The Green Paper will set out the Government 's prefer option for design of the Fund . A White Paper will follow in early 2014 , which will outline the final design of the Fund . In releasing these Terms of Reference , our intention be not to lay out the full design of the scheme but to seek view on the optimal design against the framework set out above . We want and value your input . We be serious about this process be a full , honest and open consultation , where all idea be welcome . We know that considerable experience and expertise in this area reside among the Australian community , and it 's our intention to draw from that experience so that the Fund can operate a efficiently and effectively a possible . It be my earnest hope that many of you here today will play an active role in this consultation process . One of the matter that the White Paper will address be the mechanism for deal with emission above the business-as-usual baseline . The mechanism will work with the Emissions Reduction Fund in help Australia to meet it emission reduction target . It will only apply in exceptional circumstance , in part because the Emissions Reduction Fund will be there to help large emitter to take the action need to constrain their emission . The mechanism will also help encourage co-investment by business and ensure that tax payer get value for money . Ongoing Government funding should not be necessary once technology be mature and become business a usual . As we have say before the election , we be budget zero revenue . This be not intend a a revenue-raising mechanism . Conclusion Let me conclude today by talking briefly about the Government 's environment plan more broadly . It be now just over one month since we be swear in , yet we have already make a start on the work that be need for a good Australia . Our approach to meeting this challenge rest on practical , target outcome . The Coalition Government 's Plan for a Cleaner Environment rest on four pillar : Clean Air ( Direct Action ) , Clean Land , Clean Water and Heritage Protection . It offer real outcome for business , the community and the environment . These pillar will help u build a partnership between business , the community and the Government and put u on a path towards a good , strong , clean Australia . Our Clean Air plan will be deliver by our Direct Action plan with the Emissions Reduction Fund at it heart , without a punitive tax on electricity . Our Clean Land policy be build upon the Green Army , Landcare reform and create a One Stop-Shop for environmental assessment and approval . Clean Water include our commitment to the Murray Darling Plan , Water Security and Reef 2050 . Heritage Protection will be build on a range of program focus on community and heritage icon . This be a careful plan to improve Australia 's environment and reduce Australia 's greenhouse gas emission . I be confident that the Emissions Reduction Fund will be highly effective in harnessing the power of the market to achieve real , measurable result . The challenge now for Labor be to recognise the election result . The question for Labor be clear : will they allow repeal of the Carbon Tax to pave the way for a climate policy that will achieve our target or will they continue to support a scheme that see domestic emission rise and electricity price soar ? There be no doubt that the Australian people have speak . And there be no doubt that there be a good way . Thank you . 1 Carbon Emission Policies in Key Economies , Productivity Commission Research Report , May 2011 , p. 50 . 2 Ines M. Lima Azevedo , M. Granger Morgan and Lester Lave , The Electricity Journal , Jan/Feb 2011 , Vol 24 , Issue 1 . Connect Twitter Facebook Email the Minister Subscribe Email subscription RSS update Media contact Minister 's Off 