Unplugging wall charger do NOT save electricity Saving Electricity home Michael Bluejay 's home page | Contact As see in Newsweek , Forbes , NPR , the Christian Science Monitor , CNET , PC Magazine , InfoWorld , and everywhere else . Saving Electricity Mr. Electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . Saving Electricity 101 : Start Here How much it cost / how they charge What 's a Watt / Kilowatt ? How much energy do thing use ? How to measure electrical use Saving Electricity 102 : General Electricity Myths Using elec when off ? Why be my bill so high ? Capacity of an Outlet Electric Meters General Questions Main Topics Air Conditioners Clothes Dryers Computers Cooking Cooling Dryers ( clothes ) Elevators Heating Laundry Lighting Ovens Refrigerators Televisions Washing Machines Water Heaters Environment Carbon footprint calculator Carbon Offsets Solar Power Bicycle Power Alternative Energy Climate change Special Topics CFLs ( Compact Fluorescents ) Gas vs. Electric Standby power Surge Protectors ( TVSS ) Power Factor Commercial Buildings Using device overseas News News item Rebates & Tax Credits for U.S. consumer Incentives for instal insulation and for buying energy-efficient appliance like refrigerator , wash machine , and air conditioner be often available from local and state government and utility . You can see what 's available at DSIRE , Energy.gov , and Energy Star . Welcome student from : * South Adams M.S . ( Berne , IN ) Related site : Home Power Magazine . All about renewable energy for the home . No-Impact Man . Blog about a family strive to have no net impact . ( i.e. , What little they use , they offset . ) Inspirational . Off-Grid . News and resource about live without be connect to a utility company . Mr. Electricity in the news : `` Michael Bluejay run the outstanding Saving Electricity site that I 've mention many time before . '' -- J.D . Roth , Get Rich Slowly How much do your PC cost in electricity ? , PC Mech , Nov 21 , 2013 Can my bicycle power my toaster ? , Grist , June 10 , 2013 Six summer debt trap and how to avoid them , Main St , June 5 , 2013 To convert to gas or electric ? , Marketplace Radio ( NPR ) , July 20 , 2012 8 Simple Ways to Reduce Household Waste , Living Green Magazine , June 29 , 2012 Why be my electric bill so high ? , New York Daily News , Mar . 27 , 2012 Fight the Power , CTV ( Canada 's large private broadcaster ) , Mar . 23 , 2012 How to Cut Your Electric Bill , Business Insider , Mar . 20 , 2012 Tips to save energy when use your computer , WPLG Channel 10 ( Miami , FL ) , Feb. 23 , 2012 How long will it take an energy-efficient washer/dryer to pay for itself ? , Christian Science Monitor , Oct. 29 , 2011 10 Easy Ways to Lower Your Electric Bill , Forbes , August 23 , 2011 18 way to save on utility bill , AARP , July 9 , 2011 Hot over the energy bill ? Turn off the A/C , just chill , Chicago Tribune , June 24 , 2011 Cool Site of the Day , Kim Komando ( syndicate radio host ) , May 29 , 2011 This calculator show how much you spend wash clothes , Lifehacker , May 6 , 2011 What you pay when you 're away , WCPO Channel 9 ( Cincinatti ) , May 5 , 2011 Spotting energy glutton in your home , Chicago Tribune ( CA ) , Apr . 7 , 2011 Walnut Creek author have tip for livng a thrifty life , Contra Costa Times ( CA ) , Jan. 24 , 2011 Do space heater save money and energy ? , Mother Jones , Jan. 10 , 2011 Energy step to take for a less pricey winter , Reuters , Nov. 10 , 2010 Should you shut down your computer or put it to sleep ? , Mother Jones , Nov. 1 , 2010 Energy saving tip for fall , Chicago Tribune & Seattle Times Nov. 7 , 2010 10 way to save money on your utility bill , Yahoo ! Finance , Oct. 2 , 2010 The case against long-distance relationship , Slate , Sep. 3 , 2010 10 household item that be bleed you dry , Times Daily ( Florence , AL ) , July 27 , 2010 Cold , hard cash , Kansas City Star , June 22 , 10 Stretch your dollar , not your budget , Globe and Mail , May 18 , 2010 Auto abstinence , onearth magazine , Winter 2010 2010 Frugal Living Guide , Bankrate.com Energy-saving scheme yield 5.8m in saving , Times of Malta , Dec. 20 , 09 Four way to reduce your PC 's carbon footprint , CNET , Dec 2 , 09 The day I hit the brake , onearth magazine , Fall 2009 Enjoy the mild weather , low electricity bill , Detroit Free Press , Jul 18 , 09 The most energy-efficient way to heat a cup of water , Christian Science Monitor , Jun 16 , 09 Ten way to save energy , Times of Malta , Jan 3 , 09 Measuring your green IT baseline , InfoWorld , Sep 4 , 08 The Power Hungry Digital Lifestyle , PC Magazine , Sep 4 , 07 Net Interest , Newsweek , Feb 12 , 07 Going Green , Monsters and Critics , Jan 6 , 2007 A hunt for energy hog , Wall Street Journal Online , Dec 18 06 Unplug charger to save money ? Do n't bother ! You might have hear that unplugging idle appliance around your home save a lot of electricity . But for the most part that 's just not true . Idle phone charger and power adapter likely account for way less than 1 % of residential energy use . ( Those who claim it 's 5-10 % be look at ancient study from long ago before new regulation kick in , and even then those old 5-10 % figure be still suspect anyway . ) This mean most people ca n't save much electricity by unplugging their wall charger . You're much good off address your heating , cool , light , laundry , and computer first . Have you do all that ? Good . Now you can work on saving piddle 0.5 % or so of household electrical use that come from vampire power . For the full scoop , read on ... There be three kind of thing that use vampire power : Devices in standby . When you grab your TV 's remote control and press ON , the TV have to be get a little juice already so it can receive that ON signal and respond to it . It 's `` standing by '' wait for you to turn it on with the remote . That 's where we get the term `` standby power '' . Other thing that use standby power because they 're wait to respond to a button press be DVD player , stereo , and microwave oven . Plug-in adapter . These be the big black block that convert AC to DC . Some of them draw some electric even when the device they're power be turn off ( or in the case of charger , even when the phone or device be fully charge ) . If the adapter be warm even when the device be off , it 's waste a little electricity , but usually not much . Other device that run off DC internally . In some device the AC-to-DC adapter be internal , to avoid have the big , bulky plug-in adapter . This be really just like # 2 above except that you ca n't see the adapter . Most modern device use no more than 1 watt in standby mode , and many of them use less than 0.5 watt . ( WP ) A one-watt device that run continuously use 8.8 kWh per year . But the typical American household use 11,040 kWh per year . So the standby power for one device represents a mere 0.08 % of the household 's energy use . If the household have twelve of these device , that still account for less than 1 % of the entire household use . So now you 'll see why chase vampire power be usually a waste of time , unless you 've already tackle your heating , cool , laundry , light , and computer first . For wall charger it 's often even less . Modern charger go down to zero ( or pretty close to it ) when nothing's plugged into them . Even a charger use one watt when idle and plug in constantly would use only about $ 1 per year at average electricity rate . But what about old device and adapter ? Those do use a bit more energy when idle , but the effect be n't that great unless you have a lot of them . If a modern device waste 1 watt when idle cost about $ 1 a year to leave plugged in constantly , then an older device waste 10 watt when idle cost only about $ 10 a year . Not the low-hanging fruit . As a test , I plug in nine wall chargers/adapters into a power strip and measure the consumption with a meter . As you can see from the picture at right , the meter read `` 0 '' all nine together do n't even use a single watt . I have to plug in a 10th adapter to get the screen to change from 0 to 1 watt . Oh , but maybe you 've hear that the real penalty be leave your phone connect to a charger after it 's already finish charge ? Hardly . I charge three phone and when they be finish charge , all three together use a mere 1 watt . ( During charge , all three together used 8 watt . See picture at right . ) Two of those phone be 2004 model , by the way , hardly the late and great . How do you know whether your particular device be draw vampire power or not ? Measure it ! Now , there be some thing that it pay to unplug , but they 're not phone charger . You 'll save by unplugging ( or put on a switch ) : Cable TV box & DVRs . If they 're not an Energy Star model and make in 2013 or late , a cable TV box + DVR combo likely sucking around 50 watt of power , 24/7 . ( NRDC , PDF ) That's about as much a an Energy Star refrigerator , and clock in at around $ 72/year of electricity if the rate be 16/kWh . Of course , with many of these model if you unplug them you 'll have to reprogram them when you reconnect them , but dude , why be you watch cable TV anyway ? It 's 2013 ! Mr. Electricity wo n't allow these device in his home . And in fact , ditch cable in favor of Internet streaming save the exorbitant cost of the cable service itself , which dwarf the cost of the electricity to run it . Anything with a light that 's always on ( unless it's an LED light , which be okay ) . Water pump . If you have a water pump it's probably for a reason , but at least put it on a timer so it do n't run 24/7 . How to combat vampire power Address the low-hanging fruit first . You're much good off address your heating , cool , light , laundry , and computer first . Have you do all that ? Good . Now you can work on saving piddle 0.5 % or so of household electrical use that come from vampire power . Look for the Energy Star label when buy device . Energy Star-approved product use little to no energy when idle . Test the device you already own to see if they 're use too much standby power . If they 're not use much , then there 's not much point in doing the step below to combat standby power . Ten device use 1 watt of standby cost only about $ 1/mo . to run , use a sample rate of 15/kWh . Unplug device and adapter when you 're not use them . This method be free but inconvenient . If you want convenience you can have it for a few buck , a the next few item show ... For one or two item , get a flip switch . The one picture at right be one of my favorite . It cost me all of $ 1.99 . For a two or more device that will be on or off at the same time , use a simple power bar with a switch . The one picture at leave be four buck at Home Depot . Oh , so easy . For several device that you want to switch separately , get a power strip with individual switch . While these be ubiquitous in other country like Japan , they 're hard to find in the U.S . But never fear , I find one for you , similar to the one picture at right , for $ 20 . If you prefer something more industrial or rack-mountable , there's the $ 27 Mr. DJ rack-mount AC switch bank . . For computer , TV , or stereo system , you might like a smart strip . It 's a special power strip that automatically cut power to all all your accessory device when you turn off the main one . ( e.g. , Turn off the computer , and it automatically cut power to the printer and scanner . Turn off the stereo , and it automatically cut power to the CD player , tape player , etc . ) Me , I prefer a switchbank like I mention above , because then I can keep my scanner and printer off while the computer be on , turn them on only when I actually need to use them . A U.K. product call Bye Bye Standby let you turn power to an outlet on and ( completely ) off use a remote control . ( The U.S. version have be discontinue . ) This be handy if you have only a couple of item to manage , and if the plug be n't in a convenient place for a switch . More energy to run the clock than the device ? [ The follow be write back in the 90 when standby power be high than it be today , but I 'm keep it for historical purpose . ] When we talk about the `` energy to run the clock '' in a microwave or VCR we 're not really be fair , because the standby power do more than just run the clock . It keep a microwave ready to respond to any button you press , and keep a VCR ready to respond to the ON button on the remote control ( or your instruction to automatically come on at a certain time to record a program ) . But we're be unfair today , so we 'll talk about the power to run the clock , a though that be the only thing go on when the device be off . Okay , so my old VCR use 5 watt when it 's `` off '' , 12 watt when it 's `` on '' , and 18 watt when it 's actually play a tape . Let's say I play tape for an hour a day , and otherwise it be off . ON : 1 hour x 18 watt = 18 watt-hour OFF : 23 hour x 5 watt = 115 watt-hour Yes , the clock use more energy than the device itself . Way more . Is the same true of the microwave ? It depend on how much you use it , and how powerful your microwave be . ON : 10 minute x 1000 watt = 167 watt-hour OFF : 23 hour , 50 minute x 7 watt = 167 watt-hour So in this case the clock use more energy than the oven if you use the oven for less than 7 minute a day . ( This be an example because your own microwave likely us a different amount of energy when it 's on and when it 's in standby . The number above be n't true for all microwave . ) When energy-efficient appliance aren't My old Apple Personal Laserwriter 300 be tout a be a modern energy-efficient appliance . It didn't even have an power switch ! Apple design it to automatically go into low-power mode when it be n't be use , consuming only five watt of power . If you be the kind of person who never turn off your printer , then this would definitely save a lot of energy -- most of the time you 'd be use only five watt instead of several hundred . But if you 're the kind of person who shuts things off when you're done with them , then all of a sudden this energy miser be really an energy waster . It suck five watt of power 24/7 , whether you're using it or not . I solve this problem by putting it on a switchable power strip . Sample standby power amount 10.4W - Printer ( HP Laser Jet 2200d ) 8.2W - Router ( Netgear DG834PN ) 2.8W - Monitor ( Dell 1907FPT , Elite Group EZX15G ) 1.6W - Phone Charger ( Samsung phone charger for D900 ) 0.4W - iPod charger Saving Electricity 101 : Start Here How much it cost / how they charge What 's a Watt / Kilowatt ? How much energy stuff us How to measure electrical use Mr. Electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . General Electricity Myths Using elec . when off ? Why be my bill so high ? Capacity of an Outlet Electric Meters General Questions Specific Appliances Cooling Heating Lighting Refrigerators Washing Machines Clothes Dryers Water Heaters Computers Televisions Cooking Elevators Environment Carbon footprint calculator Carbon offset Solar Power Bicycle Power Alternative Energy Climate change Special Topics Standby power Compact Fluorescents/CFL Surge Suppressors ( TVSS ) Power Factor Commercial Buildings Using device overseas 