How Does an Electric Toothbrush Work ? - How Home Electronics work How Home Electronics work Living Room Electronics Television Tablet Stereo Digital Clock Bathroom Electronics Hair Dryer Electric Razor Electric Toothbrush Hair Curler Bedroom Electronics Alarm Clock Humidifier Air Conditioner Ceiling Fan How An Electric Toothbrush Works Electric Toothbrush You just eat your favorite dinner . After relax for a few minute , you decide it 's time to brush your teeth . You head into the bathroom , open up the medicine cabinet , and pull out ... a tree twig ? If you 're live in ancient Babylonia or Egypt , chance be that 's just how you 're brush your teeth . Can you imagine ? ! How about brush your teeth with a utensil fashion out of animal bone and hog hair for bristle ? You 're probably think how lucky you be right now that you live in modern time . Today , most people brush their teeth use either a conventional manual toothbrush or an electric toothbrush . Just how do the toothbrush evolve over the year , and when do people start use toothbrush with electronic part to clean their teeth ? And how do electric toothbrush work ? History of the toothbrush The first known bristle toothbrush that look like toothbrush use today date back in record history to the Tang Dynasty , circa 700 AD . This toothbrush be create out of hog hair use for the bristle , and the handle be make out of either animal bone or bamboo . The idea of the bristle toothbrush caught on year late in Europe and become more widespread in the 17th century . In 1690 , English antiquarian ( one who deal in antiquity ) Anthony Wood write the first known use of the word 'toothbrush ' in his autobiography . Toothbrushes make from hog or horse hair continue to be mass produce up through the mid 20th century . In 1880 , an English doctor know a Dr. Scott advertise the first electric toothbrush . The funny thing about this electric toothbrush be ... it use no electricity whatsoever ! In fact , Dr. Scott also advertise electric hair brush and even something he call an 'electric flesh brush , ' and none of these device use electricity either . Scott 's electric toothbrush actually have slightly magnetize iron rod in their handle , and there be no electrical current at all . Though the first electric toothbrush be invent in the 1930s in Switzerland , it be quickly take off the market for ineffectiveness . The first effective electric toothbrush , know a the 'Broxodent , ' be then invent in 1954 by Dr. Philippe-G. Woog . The toothbrush be market first in Switzerland and late introduce to the U.S. at the 100th anniversary of the American Dental Association in 1960 . How the electric toothbrush work Electric toothbrushes have an internal motor that begin to spin when the toothbrush be switch to the 'on ' position . The gear inside convert this spinning into an upward/downward motion , and the brush move a well . This motion , of course , mimic the brush of teeth with a manual toothbrush . Electric toothbrushes can be extremely effective for cleaning teeth , especially for those with brace or painful hand and wrist condition . An electric toothbrush work by vibrate and oscillate . The motion be usually cause by an electric charge produce by a small battery in the toothbrush . Some electric toothbrush work by inductive charging , which be when two part of a transformer inside the brush be bring together and a small magnetic field create an electric current to charge the battery . Other electric toothbrush be operate by replaceable or rechargeable battery . The electronic component of the toothbrush must be seal to prevent water from come in , which would damage the electronic part and render the product unusable . Electric toothbrushes , because they must remain waterproof , be often charge through a charging unit contain electronic component that hold and control an electric charge by electronic component such a capacitor and resistor . Electric toothbrushes typically use pressure sensor a well a timer device that be set typically at two minute , which be the time the American Dental Association recommend be best for brushing . Types of electric toothbrush Electric toothbrushes essentially fall into one of two category , with the type of action utilize decide which category . The first type be 'vibration . ' This type of toothbrush brush with a technique like that use in manual , where brush happens over many teeth at once . The second type be 'rotating-oscillating . ' This category brush in much the same way a dentist would brush a patient 's teeth , use a technique that clean slowly , from one tooth to the next . Perhaps no one need to use an electric toothbrush ... but million of people swear by them and would n't have it any other way . Because electric toothbrush spin at many more time the rate that can be perform manually , their effectiveness for cleaning the teeth often can be great than brush with a conventional toothbrush . Create a free website Powered by Start your own free website A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator . Learn more . 