Lumberjack Log Homes Log Home Construction & Maintenance . Lumberjack Log Homes 70 Williams Road Gallatin Gateway , Montana 59730 Phone 1-406-763-4421 Fax 1-406-763-4657 Email Log Home Construction & Maintenance From Texas A & M University - Charles L. Stayton , James V . Robinson , and Philip Hamman* Log home be become popular again in the South . In the late 1800 's more than 50 percent of all dwelling be construct of log . But by the mid-1930 's wood side home have become the norm , with less than 1 percent of new home construct of log . Wood siding home usually be good construct because they be build to be permanent rather than temporary . Today , home builder be discover that log home can provide attractive , long-lasting shelter , but that they also can have insect , wood rot and exterior finishing problem if improperly construct and maintain Also , heating and cool cost can be high for log home a compare to conventional home . To be assure of satisfaction with the final product , potential log homeowner should be aware of possible problem so that they can be prevent . ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy efficiency depend upon use thick log with airtight construction . How thick the log need to be be debatable . Wood have an average R-value of about 1.25 per inch . Theoretically , if a log home be to match the energy efficiency of a conventional home with a wall R-value of 12 , log need to be about 9- inch thick . Research suggest that this theoretical log size can be reduce to about 8 inch because of the log wall mass . However , actual comparison in East Texas be show that machined log wall 5- inch thick provide energy efficiency equal to or good than conventional 2x4 stud wall construction . If the above data remain consistent , log thickness beyond 51/2 inch may not be economical . Increasing log size from 5- to 7- inch add about $ 2,300 to the cost of a 2,000-square-foot home . If the same $ 2,300 be invest at 7 percent annual compound interest for 7 year , the increase log size would have to reduce monthly heating and cool cost by $ 44 to equal the investment return . Extreme climates may require a minimum log size of 7- inch or large . More data on comparison by geographical area be need to establish minimum log size . It be become obvious , however , that properly build log home ' be certainly equal to conventionally build home , even when conventional home have polyethylene film barrier to reduce air turnover rate . The National Bureau of Standards ' recent study clearly show this . Proper construction be critical for log home energy efficiency just a it be for conventional home . Two common construction error may account for some of the poor energy performance , which commonly occur with , log home . Most of the energy loss in a home be through the ceiling , not the wall . Log home without conventional roof system may not have adequate attic space to allow for proper insulation . And incorrect construction , with green log , can create tremendous air turnover rate . Airtight construction be best achieve and maintain by using machine log rather than natural , round one . Machined log make possible tighter joint between log and between log end and door and windows . Tighter joint be more easily seal against air leakage , thus reduce the air turnover rate and heating and cool cost . A highly elastic , tightly bond caulk , such a polyurethane , be the best choice for sealing joint because log will continue to shrink and swell . It be important to periodically check all seal joint for air leakage and to reseal any reopen joint . *Respectively , Extension wood product specialist , Extension entomologist and Extension urban entomologist , The Texas A & M University System . PREVENTING WOOD ROT AND INSECT DAMAGE Proper building practice and good log quality control must be adhere to in order to prevent wood rot and insect damage . These problem can lead to costly repair for the homeowner . Proper Building Practices A log home must be design and construct to prevent both rain and ground moisture accumulation and , excessive shrinkage . Logs should be dry ( below 20 percent moisture content ) before building . Wood shrink a it dry , cause cracking , split and warp . An 8 foot high wall build with fresh cut log can settle 3 to 4 inch because of shrinkage . Unless a log home be design to allow for such shrinkage , structural failure and rain and air seepage can occur . Structural failure lead to costly repair ; air seepage increase energy cost ; and rain seepage cause wood decay . Moisture problem that cause log decay be relate to careless workmanship and poor design and maintenance . They usually can be eliminate by properly design and construct the foundation , wall and roof . Good drainage be essential to a dry foundation and must be consider in the initial planning . The building site should be grade or ditch so rainwater drain away from the home . Stone and concrete foundation or pier that keep untreated log 12 to 18 inch above the ground be highly recommend . The crawl space create by foundation or pier should be properly ventilate and screen to keep out animal . Open crawl space or those enclose with screen or latticework usually be adequately ventilate . Solid foundation wall should have properly size vent to allow adequate air circulation in the crawl space . Vent opening within10 foot of the corner usually give the best cross ventilation . The size and number of opening should be base on soil moisture , atmospheric humidity and air movement . In general , the total area of all ventilation opening should , be equivalent to 1/150 of the ground area beneath the dwelling . Keep shrubbery far enough away from foundation wall that it will not restrict air movement through ventilator opening . If the crawl space under the building be frequently damp , the soil should be cover with heavy grade polyethylene plastic sheet ( at least 6 millimeter thick ) so that soil moisture will not evaporate and condense on the wood sub floor and log wall . The soil should be treat for subterranean termite before the plastic ground cover be put down . Untreated log place on slab on ground foundation be highly susceptible to decay without proper slab design and log maintenance . The slab top should be no less than 6 inch ( preferably 8 inch ) above the ground to maintain the require minimum 6 inch above ground for the first log . Logs should be treat periodically with a total wood preservative ( Preservatives be , discuss under exterior log finish ) . A vapor barrier , consist , of a heavy grade polyethylene plastic sheet with a minimum rating of perm should be use under the , concrete slab . Joints should be lap at least 4 inch and seal . Logs place on slab foundation also can be protect by cover porch . However , when expose log be close than 6 inch to the ground , the first three bottom log should be pressure treat with chromated copper arsenate ( CCA ) . Log cabin wall window and doorframe must be carefully construct to avoid forming crevice where water can accumulate and soak into the wood . Fittings should be make tight and protect by polyurethane caulk . Rainwater do not normally cause serious decay damage if it can quickly run off . But water trap in joint , crevice or crack can cause decay . During construction major crack or check in log should be turn downward or caulk so that they will not trap water . Joints between log also must be caulk . Proper roof construction help prevent wood decay in wall , foundation , door , and windows . The roof , overhang should not be less than 18 inch ( preferably 24 inch ) for a one story home and 24 inch ( preferably 36 inch for a two story . Wider overhang be particularly desirable in area of high rainfall , such a along the Gulf Coast . The great the roof pitch and overhang , the farther away from the structure the rainwater be project , thus protect the wall from wet . Roof supporting log , timber or saw lumber should not extend beyond the eaves where they can become wet and be quickly attack by wood decay . Termite protection be best achieve by treat the soil around both side of foundation wall , around pier and utility entrance , and under the foundation slab prior to or during construction . An EPA register termitecide should be use . Both slab on ground and pier and beam foundation require this soil treatment . Consult with qualified pest control operator who supply termite treatment service . For more information , your county Extension agent can supply publication on subterranean termite and on selecting a termite control service . Log Quality Control In order to produce , good quality log , the effect of insect , and decay cause fungi must be minimize , during log harvest , dry , machine , transit and construction . Many problem with decay and insect can be eliminate by using log soon after they be cut and by protect them during season and storage . Logs should be remove from the wood immediately and debark . In a southern climate , dead timber use for log should be harvest no late than 3 to 4 month after tree die . Extensive , damage from decay and insect can occur while the tree be stand , and salvage log should be inspect carefully for borer activity a they be peel . Insects and decay problem be less likely to occur if healthy tree and log be cut in late fall or winter and use promptly . Leaving the bark on log restricts dry and preservative treatment and attracts some insect . Sawyers , metallic borer and ambrosia beetle can attack log bark and sapwood immediately after tree be cut . However , old house borer and powderpost beetle prefer debark log . Treating log with preservative immediately after debark and prior to dry will help prevent attack by these insect . Preservative treatment involve dip the log in copper 8 quinolinolate or zinc naphthenate solution and store them 18 inch off the ground , preferably under a roof to air-dry . This treatment will protect the log from some insect and stain fungi while dry , but do not provide permanent protection . Logs store for dry during warm weather should be spray with an EPA register insecticide contain linclane or chlorpyrifos to prevent infestation by certain wood bore insect . Logs also can be kiln dry after debarking rather than air-dried . High kiln temperature usually kill any insect larva and decay fungi present . Whether log be air or kiln dry , their final moisture content should be below 20 percent to prevent , wood decay . Pressure preservative treatment of log after they be dry and machine protects them completely from decay and insect damage during transit , storage , construction and there after . The recommend preservative for treating both interior and exterior wood be CCA . CCA treatment color log grayish green , but this cart be mask by applying pigment wood preservative . Logs that be not pressure preservative treat should receive another dipping in copper 8 quinolinolate or zinc naphthenate after machine . This provide some protection from decay and insect during transit , storage and construction . After construction , the exterior log surface must be spray or brush periodically with a wood preservative that contains an effective water repellent . Logs should be inspect annually , and any new , large check or crack should be caulk with a polyurethane caulk compound . Exterior Log Finishing Most people who purchase or build log home want them to continue to look just like they do when first build . Unfortunately , this will not happen without continual maintenance . An important part of maintenance be the application of a finish to exterior log . Finish information recommendation be base on test perform primarily in East Texas . The opinion give should in no way be interpret a an official endorsement by the Texas Agricultural Extension Service or the Texas Forest Service , both of the Texas A & M University System . ( CCA pressure-treated log can be finish after they have weather for 6 month in an expose location or 1 year in a protect location such a under a cover porch . ) The finish should protect against weather ( sunlight and rain ) , decay and mildew . ( CCA treatment protects log from decay , but not mildew . ) The finish also must contain a pigment if the homeowner wish to maintain the original wood color or mask the greenish color of CCA treatment . Weathering test conduct by the Texas Forest Service 's Forest Products Laboratory show that most wood stain , water repellent and preservative last only 7 to 18 month before mildew or weather begin . Most log homeowner report that they be refinish annually to maintain the original wood color . One product test In Texas and Missouri have prove effective in controlling both weathering and mildew . It be TWP ( Total Wood Preservative ) . TWP contain both a fungicide and a mildewcide , a well a a pigment , resin , ultraviolet light absorber and water repellent . The TWP finish last about 5 year and may be the best way of maintain an attractive natural wood look . Seal Treat II be another product that give a long-lasting finish . However , it be only available in a clear , ready-to-use solution and be not effective in maintaining the original color of wood . Wood treat with Seal Treat 11 weather to a pleasing ash white color . This product control mildew well . Sikkens , a product that must be apply in multiple coat , have show acceptable result for shorter period or time . It tend to break down under ultraviolet light within 2 to 3 year , and do not protect against mildew for very long in hot , humid climate . Although the initial cost of Sikkens be high when compare to other product , it coverage rate tends to compensate for the cost difference . Controlling Decay and Insects in Existing Log Homes Owners of log home often experience wood decay and insect problem . The most common insect problem be cause by beetle , which attack the wood within day after tree be fell or a log be dry , machine or transport . These beetle include : the metallic wood-boring beetle sometimes refer to a flatheaded borer ; long-horned wood-boring beetle or round head borer ; ambrosia beetle and pin-hole borer , and powderpost beetle and old house borer . The beetle larva most often find , in home construct of softwood log be metallic wood-boring beetle . The adult lay egg in bark crack and crevice of unseasoned log . The larva fee deeper into log a the wood get drier , and emerge a adult within I to 5 year after house construction . The inch to inch oval hole they leave upon emerge can trap water in the insect tunnel , cause decay . These emergence hole should be seal with polyurethane caulk . No treatment for these beetle be require . Powderpost beetle and old house borer infest wood after debarking and during season , storage , transit or construction . The adult emerge 3 or more year later and can then re-infest the wood . Therefore , emerge beetle must be identify so that an appropriate control method can be use . These method include spray or inject the log with an EPA register insecticide , or in certain case fumigate log under a gas-tight tarpaulin . Both of these control method will require the service of a certified pest control operator Subterranean termite can pose a serious threat to log home ; that be why homeowner be strongly advise to have the soil properly treat prior to or during construction . If termite attack log after the home be build , the , damage can result in substantial labor and repair cost . Also , it be much more expensive and difficult to treat the soil under an exist slab . The log home should be inspect annually for any sign of termite damage , and the damage control before it become extensive . For more information on insect which attack wood , obtain Extension publication on subterranean and dry wood termite , wood destroy beetle , carpenter ant and carpenter bee from your county Extension agent . Most structural damage to log home be cause by wood decay rather than by insect . Wood decay be cause by excess moisture , and can be prevent by protecting wood from moisture . CCA pressure treat wood must be use to replace any rotting wood . The author express their appreciation to Sam Satterwhite of Satterwhite Log Homes , Longview , Texas for provide financial support to print this publication , and to Dr. Harry B. Moore , Extension Entomologist North Carolina State University , for his contribution in review this publication . Issued in furtherance of Cooperative Extension Work in Agriculture and Home Economics . Acts of Congress of May 8 . 1914 , a amend , and June 30,1914 , in cooperation with the United States Department of Agriculture . Zerle L. Carpenter , Director , Texas Agricultural Extension Service . The Texas A & M University System . 