Residence Hall Safety : UNCW Environmental Health & Safety Skip UNCW Quicklinks Email Directory mySeaport Quicklinks Blackboard Learn Campus Police Career Center Chancellor 's Office Consumer Information Diversity Distance Education Financial Aid Forms Health Services Housing Information Technology Jobs Policies & Procedures Registrar SeaNet Swoop Tuition & Fees Search UNCW : Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Programs and Services Safety & Health Programs and Services Emergency Management Severe Weather Training Institutional Risk Management Who to Contact Annual Fire Safety Report 2010/ 2011 Fire Safety Report 2009 / 2010 Fire Safety Report Electrical Appliances Electrical Outlets Fire Safety Hazardous Materials Pets Smoking Residence Hall Safety RESIDENCE HALL- FIRE EMERGENCY PROCEDURES When you be alert by the fire alarm , shout warning , or the sensation of smoke or fire : Feel the metal door knob before open any door . If it be hot , dont open the door . If it isnt , brace yourself against the door , open it slightly ; but if heat or heavy smoke be present , close the door and stay in the room . If you cant leave the room , seal up the crack around the door use sheet or piece of clothe . Then hang an object out the window ( i.e. , bed sheet , jacket or shirt ) to attract the attention of the fire department . Call University Police ( 911 ) or 962-2222 and report that you be trap . Be sure to give your room number and location . Keep low to the floor if there be smoke in the room . If you can leave the room , close all door and windows as you exit . Move quickly in a crouched position to the near exit . DO NOT USE AN ELEVATOR . If the near exit be block by fire , heat or smoke , go to another exit . Place a wet towel or cloth over your head and face . Breathe through the wet towel by taking short breath through your nose . Cover your body with something that can be easily discard if it catch on fire ; also wear shoe . If all exit be block , go back Stand clear of the building after evacuate . Go to your designate area and help account for each person on your floor . Never re-enter a burning building for any reason CALL UNIVERSITY POLICE - 911 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES The electrical system in the residence hall be not design to carry heavy load of electrical equipment . The maximum capacity for each room be 1,000 watt . Therefore , no single appliance should exceed 700 watt . Appliances that be permit include : microwave , coffee pot , air popcorn popper , hair dryer , electric shaver , radio , TVs and stereo . Microwaves be permit in student room and must be .7 cu . ft. or small . Items , which be not allow , include : electric heater , oil popcorn popper , toaster oven , and other open coiled or open flame appliance . MICROWAVES ARE THE ONLY COOKING APPLIANCES ALLOWED IN THE STUDENT ROOMS . Students live in the University Apartments may use toaster but not toaster oven . NO HOMEMADE ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE WILL BE PERMITTED . A student may bring or rent a refrigerator for their room . A privately own refrigerator 2.0 cu . ft. or less requires one $ 10.00 refrigerator decal ; any privately-owned refrigerator over 2.0 cu . ft. require two $ 10.00 decal . A refrigerator can not exceed 4.9 cu . ft . These decal may be purchase during check-in or at the Office of Housing and Residence Life . Go to : Top of Page ELECTRICAL OUTLETS Use of extension cord be permit when only one item be plug into it ; however , you may use more than one appliance on a circuit if you use breaker-protected , multi-plug power strip . These may be purchase for under $ 15.00 at most hardware and department store . We also encourage you to use surge protector on all electronic equipment : TVs , VCRs , stereo equipment , CD player , etc . Go to : Top of Page FIRE SAFETY Candles , incense , oil lamp , etc . be not permit in the residence hall . These item produce an open flame or hotspot that produce smoke . They may inadvertently set off the smoke alarm system cause a false alarm . They may start a fire . Scented be warmer be allow a long a they do n't require an open flame . You be encourage to bring iron and curl iron that have an automatic turn off feature . Live Christmas tree be not permit in student room . No firework or gas grill be allow in or around any residence life area . Charcoal grill be not allow on porch or balcony , but may be use outside and at a safe distance from the building . Motorized vehicle may not be park at any location in or around the student residence other than authorized parking lots/spaces . Walls of any residence life area may not be cover by cardboard and no wall may have more than 50 % of it total area cover by any material include paper , cardboard , fabric , metal , etc . At no time may item cover life safety equipment such a sprinklerheads or smoke detector . Items may not block doorway . Students be not allow to bring halogen lamp to their room , apartment or suite . Halogen lamp burn up to 10 time hot than an ordinary light bulb , cause a potential fire hazard . Keeping with university policy , resident in the University Apartments and the University Suites should store nothing , include bicycle , under any stairwell . Fire fighting , detection and alarm equipment be provide for the protection of all resident . Misuse of , or tamper with , this equipment be a violation of university regulation and state criminal statute , and may result in any one or combination of the following : immediate termination of the housing license contract , university disciplinary action , and criminal fine and/or imprisonment . Students be require by state law to evacuate a residence hall when a fire alarm be activate or during other emergency . Go to : Top of Page HAZARDOUS MATERIALS Hazardous material include , but not limit to , gas , propane , chemical , tiki torch fluid , gas grill be not permit in on-campus housing under any circumstance . Go to : Top of Page PETS Because of public health regulation , pet be NOT permit in the residence hall , the University Apartments , University Suites , or Seahawk Village , Landing and Crossing under any circumstance include brief visit or temporary stay . This applies to , but be not limit to dog , cat , bird , hamster , snake , mouse and other rodent . Fish in aquarium be permit a long a the tank do not exceed 20 gallon and be keep in sanitary condition . A Health and Safety fine of at least $ 25.00 be assess to each student who posse a pet in the student residence . Residents will be assess for the cost of extermination in any room require pesticide for flea cause by pet . Any pet find in violation of this policy may be remove immediately and turn over to the Wilmington Animal Control Center or the Humane Society . Go to : Top of Page SMOKING University of North Carolina Wilmington be a smoke-free campus a it apply to all academic , student support and residential building . This mean that smoking be not permit in building at any time . Violators of the smoke-free guideline will be hold accountable for their action in the student conduct system . All private ( residential room , suit , apartment , bathroom , and computer lab ) and public area ( main lobby , common lounge , study room , hallway , laundry facility , and stairwell ) in all residential facility be consider smoke-free . Resident student and their guest must smoke outside of university-owned residential facility at least 25 foot from any building entrance or air intake . Smoking material must be properly dispose of in approve recepticles . Students find in violation of this policy will be fin at least $ 25.00 for their first instance and at least $ 50.00 for each subsequent violation . Go to : Top of Page The University Academics Admissions Arts Athletics Financial Aid Giving International Library Offices & Services Research Academic Units Graduate School Cameron School of Business Watson College of Education College of Arts & Sciences College of 