Emissions from energy generation jump most in eight year after carbon price ax Skip to navigation Skip to content Help use this website - Accessibility statement JavaScript disable . Please enable JavaScript to use My News , My Clippings , My Comments and user setting . My News My Clippings My Comments My Benefits Today 's Paper Subscribe Log in Register Personalise your news , save article to read late and customise setting If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . 11:01AM Friday Mar 6 , 2015 28250 ( 0 ) online now Do you know more about a story ? contact u Close Provide detail information , include contact detail ( if relevant ) Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Newsletters Fairfax Media Network More Close News & Weather smh.com.au theage.com.au brisbanetimes.com.au canberratimes.com.au nationaltimes.com.au watoday.com.au weatherzone.com.au Business & Finance businessday.com.au brw.com.au afr.com afrmagazine.com.au smartinvestor.com.au investsmart.com.au Lifestyle life & style dailylife.com.au thevine.com.au essentialbaby.com.au essentialkids.com.au findababysitter.com.au goodfood.com.au Classifieds domain.com.au drive.com.au adzuna.com.au rsvp.com.au stayz.com.au Advertise with u Newsletters Full list of site About Fairfax Media Privacy Terms & Conditions The Sydney Morning Herald Environment Environment Weather Climate Change Whale Watch Animals Conservation Energy Smart You be here : Home Environment Climate Change Search smh : Search in : Environment smh.com.au Web Environment Emissions from energy generation jump most in eight year after carbon price ax Date September 3 , 2014 ( 29 ) Comments 95 Read late Peter Hannam Environment Editor , The Sydney Morning Herald View more article from Peter Hannam Follow Peter on Twitter Follow Peter on Google+ Email Peter Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Dark cloud : Carbon emission from the power sector be back on the way up . Photo : Jonathan Carroll Carbon emission from the country 's main electricity grid have rise since the end of the carbon tax by the large amount in nearly eight year . Data from the National Electricity Market , which cover about 80 per cent of Australia 's population , show that emission from the sector rise by about 1 million tonne , or 0.8 per cent , at an annualised rate last month compare with June . That be the big two-month increase since the end of 2006 , and come a a result of an increase in overall demand and a rise in the share of coal-fired power in the market , accord to Pitt & Sherry 's monthly Cedex emission index . `` It be highly likely that the trend direction of electricity demand , generation and emission see in the last two month will become set in place , '' the consultancy say , adding that the emission intensity of the power industry be rise after six year of fall . Advertisement Environment Minister Greg Hunt do not comment on the rise in emission when contact on Wednesday . Australia 's bipartisan goal be to cut greenhouse gas emission by 5 per cent below 2000 level by the year 2020 . The government scrap the two-year-old carbon price in July . Greens leader Christine Milne say the figure be `` yet more evidence that Tony Abbott have deliver for the big polluter '' . `` Every tonne rise in emission be another wad of cash in a coal baron 's pocket while drive extreme weather event that everyone else will pay the price of , '' Senator Milne say . The share of black and brown coal in the national market rise to 73.3 per cent from a historic low of 72.9 per cent in July , and will probably rise further a gas and hydro start to shrink . The addition of new wind and solar energy capacity be also about to grind to a halt with the industry anticipate the Abbott government will take an axe to the Renewable Energy Target . The late emission figure come as the 20-megawatt Royalla solar plant , the country 's large solar farm to be add to the grid , be officially open in the ACT on Wednesday . About 370 megawatt of wind in NSW and Victoria and 170 megawatt of large-scale solar be under construction , but `` after that , there 's very little in the pipeline '' , Pitt & Sherry principal consultant Hugh Saddler say . Emissions from the power sector account for the large emission share of any industry , make up about one-third of Australia 's total . The industry be expect to see a rise of million of tonne of emission in come month a gas in Queensland start to be divert to export rather than domestic use and the main hydro plant scale back output . If Hydro Tasmania 's production drop back to level just after the last drought , output will be about 9 terawatt-hours a year down from about 12TWh level before the end of the carbon price . `` If that switch to brown coal , it will be nearly 4 million tonne '' of extra emission annually , Dr Saddler say . The share of gas in the market be little change last month from July at 13 per cent , while hydro 's share drop to 9.1 per cent from 9.3 per cent , Dr Saddler say . Wind energy 's share last month ease to 4.6 per cent from 4.9 per cent a month earlier . A windy July saw record wind energy production in the country . 95 comment I be a supporter of the carbon tax and I think it be reckless to abolish it , give the hard work in introducing something like this have already be do . However I dont think this article explain how an increase in demand could be attribute to the abolition of the carbon tax . I have only just receive a letter from my electricity provider say I can expect to save about 7 % on my bill . This have not cause me to run alter my behaviour and run around turn light on in celebration Commenter Dave Location Melbourne Date and time Wed Sep 03 09:41:50 UTC 2014 Dave - yes , give the carbon tax be repeal on 17 July , some 48 day ago , the suggestion that emission have increase a a result seem a stretch . How you could even measure such a difference in a small time frame be a challenge , but i 'm sure we 'll see many more `` fact '' like this over the next few year . Commenter Hacka Location Canberra Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:08:45 UTC 2014 We do need to have a fair price on carbon which be something an ETS would give u . Unhappily the carbon tax be high than that pay by other similar economy and a such be unfair . The Libs ' Direct Action scheme be also costly but the expert say it be inefficient . The Libs need to swallow their pride and choose the best option . Commenter Good Logic Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:15:42 UTC 2014 It 's probably from all those Million job they have create . Agreed , it 's a bit soon to justify such figure , but we will see a rise in emission . That 's why the POC be a proactive way to address emission initially- to change behaviour via the hip pocket nerve . This be the most Luddite Govt of our modern time , deliberately treat RE and a reduction in emission with such contempt clearly expose the coal sniffer for what they be . We will regret this regressive move and the world will react . To think we be once proudly forge the way to a new energy future . # Shakes head ... ... . Commenter A country gal Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:27:52 UTC 2014 1 Because consumer behaviour be feed by perception and anticipation a much a concrete reality . 2 . Because in advance of the scrapping of the carbon price , the electricity generation industry have slow down the move to non-coal source . Commenter Graeme Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:30:03 UTC 2014 @ hacka Ordinarily you would have make a good point and I do n't know exactly how they reach these conclusion , however it be possible by collecting data over the last 40 odd day and apply computer model and statistical technique . I would have to presume they hire professional modeller and statistician to work this out . I would say that 's probably how it 's do . Commenter DrPhil Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:33:40 UTC 2014 ACG - if direct action be n't implement , all we 'll have on the climate change front line be the RET and the CEFC . Based on that - what be your impression of the Carbon Farming Initiative , and should it be support ? Commenter Hacka Location Canberra Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:34:52 UTC 2014 Most of the CO2 Emmission reduction have occur because our factory have shut down . Yet , it CT proponents see that a a good thing . But I take Hacka 's point a be the most realistic . Makes many other comment here seem farcical . Commenter Kingstondude Location Malaysia atm Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:36:17 UTC 2014 DrPhil - you point be fair - perhaps the problem be the source data . Generally speak there 's a lag effect in be able to measure ppm , emission per tonne and other indicator . If they 're collect from the energy company , well they likely report monthly so wo n't have even report August stats yet ( a at 3 September ) . The model and sample technique you refer to be probably pretty smart , but they have to be feed by the source data . 48 day after the CT be ax , i 'm rather sceptical that the source data be current and accurate . But that 's just opinion , no real evidence . Commenter Hacka Location Canberra Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:41:51 UTC 2014 @ Hacka September 03 , 2014 , 8:08PM The fact be there in front of you - obviously you have n't read the article . `` Data from the National Electricity Market , which cover about 80 per cent of Australia 's population , show that emission from the sector rise by about 1 million tonne , or 0.8 per cent , at an annualised rate last month compare with June . That be the big two-month increase since the end of 2006 , and come a a result of an increase in overall demand and a rise in the share of coal-fired power in the market , accord to Pitt & Sherry 's monthly Cedex emission index . '' On what basis do you question publish finding apart from the inconvenient truth of them ? Commenter BillR Date and time Wed Sep 03 10:47:29 UTC 2014 More comment Comments be now close Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Advertisement Related Coverage Capital 's Solar farm open - Most popular 1 Three-metre shark return - with a friend Contains : 2 Rio Tinto win plan nod for controversial ... Contains : 3 Spider v snake : Redback spider win , snake dy ... Contains : 4 NSW Election 2015 : CSG exploration permit for ... Contains : 5 Why you should n't freak out about those ... Contains : LATEST VIDEO Environment Videos More video Weasel riding woodpecker go viral Amateur photographer Martin Le-May be bird spotting when he hear a loud screech nearby and grab his camera . PT1M3S 300 169 Thu Mar 05 02:37:16 UTC 2015 Click to play video Prince William speak against illegal wildlife trade '' Click to play video Dramatic cloud swell over Sydney '' Click to play video Siberian crater : scientist call for urgent investigation `` Featured advertiser Most Commented Articles Climate change no longer a budget problem for future generation 133 comment Momentum build toward RET deal after 'most significant discussion yet' 26 comment Advertisement Compare and Save Skip to : Best Deals Mobile Broadband Home Loans Credit Cards Low Rate Cards Rewards Cards Savings Accts Money Deals Loans Check out today 's best deal 0 % p.a . for 14 Months Plus no annual fee for the life of the card Find Out More Low Variable Rates Discover low variable home loan rate from 4.25 % More Info 60,000 Bonus Points Plus 0 % on balance transfer for 6 month Find Out More iPhone 6 We compare all carrier and deal Compare Deals Deals for 2015 Switching network or stay , we compare it Compare Deals Readers ' most view Most view article on Brisbane Times Top 5 Environment article BHP Billiton want 'rules ' of carbon reduction game This new Tesla battery will power your home , and maybe the electric grid too Rio Tinto win plan nod for controversial Warkworth coal mine NSW Planning blast over Camberwell coal mine secrecy AGL slap with $ 15,000 fine for Camden coal seam gas release Most view article on WA Today Top 5 Environment article Spider v snake : Redback spider win , snake dy from likely poisoning Welcome to 'Cat Island ' , where feline outnumber human Weak El Nino form in Pacific with impact see a minor BHP Billiton want 'rules ' of carbon reduction game NSW Election 2015 : CSG exploration permit for Sydney area cancel by Baird government Most view article on The Age Top 5 Environment article BHP Billiton want 'rules ' of carbon reduction game Summer 's long burst of heat come our way Weak El Nino form in Pacific with impact see a minor Welcome to 'Cat Island ' , where feline outnumber human NSW Election 2015 : CSG exploration permit for Sydney area cancel by Baird government Most view article on Canberra Times Top 5 Environment article BHP Billiton want 'rules ' of carbon reduction game Spider v snake : Redback spider win , snake dy from likely poisoning NSW Election 2015 : CSG exploration permit for Sydney area cancel by Baird government Weak El Nino form in Pacific with impact see a minor Welcome to 'Cat Island ' , where feline outnumber human Most view article on The Sydney Morning Herald Top 5 Environment article NSW Election 2015 : CSG exploration permit for Sydney area cancel by Baird government BHP Billiton want 'rules ' of carbon reduction game Three-metre shark return - with a friend Rio Tinto win plan nod for controversial Warkworth coal mine AGL slap with $ 15,000 fine for Camden coal seam gas release SMH Home NSW Politics World National Environment Business Digital Life Entertainment Life & Style Travel Cars Exec Style Sport Weather Sydney Morning Herald Sitemap About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us AM Today Last 8 day Text Version Site Accessibility Guide Connect Mobile Site SMH for iPad Digital Edition RSS Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Products & Services Subscribe Manage My Subscription My Benefits Good Food Guide SMH Shop Newsletters Cracka Wines Classifieds Place an Ad Accommodation Cars Dating Jobs Property Price Data Real Estate Buy and Sell Tributes Celebrations Special Reports Fairfax Media Member Centre Conditions of Use Privacy Policy News Store Archive Photo Sales Purchase Front Pages Fairfax Syndication Fairfax Events Fairfax Careers Press Council Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Buy & Sell Cruises Lawyers Credit Cards Business Mechanics Electricians Fitness Hair Salons Weddings Home Builder Cracker Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media 