Geothermal & Solar PV Home Owner Installation Story - Sinton Air connect with u twitter GeothermalGenius Home Geothermal 101 How it Works Geothermal Explained Outdoor Portion Indoor Portion System Sizing Cost Benefits 6 Benefits Environment Financial Incentives 30 % Federal Tax Credit State Incentives System Financing Canadian Incentives Testimonials Customer Map Family Example Frequent Questions Installation Diary Savings Calculator Ball Park Geothermal Savings Calculator How Much do it cost ? How much will it save ? You 'll need a local professional for an exact quote - but until your ready for that step we 'll help you get a Ball Park idea of the number . Results be ballpark figure & be not to be use a actual estimate or in any system design . Blog Latest Stories | Blog View Full Blog $ 1,800 Rebate for Maryland Residents As of July 1 2014 a new rebate be in effect for Maryland Residents who install a close loop geothermal system . The previous rebate be $ 500 the new one be $ 1,8 [ ... ] Read more ... How Energy Efficient be a Geothermal Heat Pump ? Geothermal heat pump be energy efficient heating and cool unit that use the sun natural ray to heat the ground , where this energy be absorb throu [ ... ] Read more ... How to Find the Best Geothermal Installer We really be intrigue with geothermal but hesitant about how to go about this investment wisely . There be numerous geothermal installers but how do we find th [ ... ] Read more ... Find a Contractor Equipment Leading the Way ClimateMaster be the world large manufacturer of American-made residential geothermal heating and cool system , they also be supporter GeothermalGenius 's Public Awareness Efforts . About Contact Contribute Our Story 2 out of 10 Homeowners know what a geothermal heating & cool system be . Our mission be to educate & increase public awareness . Start Saving Our Journey into Going Green : Geothermal HVAC and Solar PV System By : Dale Binkley Geothermal HVAC system As we approach the end of the annual heating season in March , 2006 , Linda ( my wife ) and I have a long discussion about the condition of our HVAC system . Our oil burner ( 29 year old ) be the original unit instal in the house when it be build in 1977 . It still perform well but have begin to require some type of repair each year over the past 4 or 5 year . All the other home build around the same time in our end of the subdivision have already replace their oil burner year ago . The central AC unit ( 16 year old ) that we add to our system in 1990 still work well and have never give u any trouble . We have supplement heating our house for 8 year with a coal fire fireplace insert . After refinish the basement where the fireplace be locate , we switch to a pellet stove for 6 year . This kept the low level of our house warmer when our kid be still live at home . Now they have all grow and leave home and we be look for a less labor intensive system ( no more carry bucket of coal , bag of pellet or can of ash ) . I have read about geothermal heating and cool and be familiar with the concept . I also know it would be a big upfront cash outlay . I start research local geothermal installers and find Sinton Air Conditioning and Heating in Kennett Square , PA. We schedule an initial appointment to discus the feasibility of have a geothermal system instal in our house . Bill Sinton come out and spend about 2 hour give u a very good overview of how the geothermal system would work and the cost saving we could expect on our heating bill in the future . We arrange for Bill to come back and do a detailed analysis of our home so that he could give u a good estimate of the cost of the project . At this point , we know that we be look at spending around $ 20,000 for a geothermal HVAC system compare to about $ 10,000 for a replacement of the type we already have . The estimate be about a 7 year payback for the premium of instal the geothermal system compare to a standard replacement oil burner/ central AC system . While we be try to make a final decision about spending the money to do this I come across an article in May/June 2006 Countryside & Small Stock Journal entitle `` Home Heating from the good Earth '' write by Rex Ewing . This article serve to reassure u that there be long term saving use a geothermal system . It also serve a the final nudge we need to go forward with the project . More on Geothermal Pennsylvania incentive . Cost : Our geothermal system be instal in late April , 2006 . The total cost out of pocket for our system be $ 23,522.48 . This be the price after a $ 500 rebate from PECO Energy and a $ 300 federal income tax credit . $ 17,256 be pay to Sinton Air ( after deduct the PECO rebate ) for installing the WaterFurnace high efficiency heating and cool unit with a desuperheater to preheat our hot water . It also include a lot of ductwork replacement to increase the airflow throughout the house to improve our comfort . $ 6,566.48 be pay to the well driller for drill ( 2 ) 250 ' bore hole , the trenching to the house and instal all the piping for the fluid transfer system . Installing the entire system take close to 2 week . The crew keep u up to date with what they do each day and what to expect the follow day . When the system be turn on and test , the installers all sign their name on the heat pump . Performance : Comfort wise , there be no comparison between the geothermal system and what we have before . The improve airflow through good ductwork and a multi speed air handling system eliminate the hot and cold spot in our home . The other add benefit be the elimination of the outside AC compressor unit and the noise it create in the summertime . The new unit also give u a more comfortable air condition house than our old unit . We be able to sit outside on our deck on a summer evening and enjoy the sound of nature instead of the constant whine of the outside AC unit . Linda be a bit skeptical when I first bring up the idea of instal a geothermal HVAC system on our home . Since it be a heat pump , she remember the performance of heat pump year ago that provide `` cool '' feel air when heating in the winter time . After feeling the `` warm to the touch '' air our unit produce she say that if we move in the future , and the house we buy do not have a geothermal HVAC system , it be one of the first improvement we should consider . Cost wise , heating in the winter season be much more economical . The best cost comparison be the last season of oil burner and central AC unit to the first season of the geothermal system . Our electric bill for the last year of the old system be $ 1,660.05 . The electric bill for the first year of our geothermal system be $ 1,692.93 . While we have a slight increase of $ 32.87 in our electric bill , we eliminate the $ 902.58 that we spend on fuel oil and wood pellet to heat the house the previous year . While I do not have exact price on fuel oil since our installation , they have go up in general and our saving be at least a much every year a the first year . We feel that we be close to have recoup the `` premium '' we pay for our geothermal system instead of just replace our former system with something similar . In the summer , the air condition be more efficient than the unit we have before . The first summer that we have the geothermal system we experience a heat wave that coincide with our electric billing period . Our home be about 30 % large in square footage ( 2800 sq . foot ) than most of our neighbor . Our bill to cool our home for the period be $ 175 compare to about $ 225 for most of our neighbor . Solar PV System I have be intrigue for many year about the possibility of generate our own electricity . Installing our geothermal system reduce the variety of utility we consume in our home to electric only . If we be able to generate most of our own electricity , we be more in control of the resource we consume to run our household . In 2007 I contact Dale Davis of CMI Solar Electric in Newark , DE to get an estimate of how much it would cost u to have a solar PV system instal to generate a portion of our electricity . Dale review our home and the feasibility of instal a system on it . While we be ideally situate to maximize the efficiency of a roof instal system , Dale suggest we wait until Pennsylvania approve an incentive program to subsidize the cost of an instal PV system . In 2009 Pennsylvania initiate the PA Sunshine Rebate Program to reimburse homeowner 35 % of the instal cost of a solar PV system . Once again I contact Dale Davis and resume the process of determine what size system we could afford to install at our home . We decide on a system that would cover the south face roof of our detached garage . This 4.1 KW system would provide about 35 % of our annual electric use . The installation only take 3 day . The crew be efficient in their work and keep u inform of what be go on each step of the process . Cost : The total cost of the system instal by CMI Electric be $ 33,622.00 . After a PA Sunshine rebate of $ 9,225.00 and Federal Tax Credit of $ 10,087.00 , our out of pocket cost be $ 14,310.00 . Performance : The system have perform a design . During the first year of operation , the PV system generate 35 % of our electric use during that time . Our electric bill for the 14 month period end Dec 31 , 2010 be $ 1,504.99 . The cost we avoid pay PECO by generating our own electric be $ 765.74 . We also have Renewable Energy Credit ( REC ) income of $ 1,521.00 receive from the sale of our green production . Based on the `` avoid cost '' of the electricity we generate and the return of our system cost through REC income , our project payback be just a bit over 7 year . Conclusion We be very satisfy with the decision we have make concern our geothermal and solar PV system . We desire to be more efficient in our use of energy in our home . The payback time require to recoup our upfront cost have be short than expect due to high energy cost than predict at the time of or system installation . The geothermal system give u economical heating and cool and the comfort level in our home be much better than it be previously . During the 6 year prior to our geothermal installation we use an average of 375 gallon of fuel oil plus 1.5 ton of wood pellet annually to heat our home . Installing our geothermal system have allow u to reduce our utility use for our home to electric only and substantially reduce our heating and cool cost . The solar PV system have perform a design and have lower the amount we pay out to buy electricity . We view the purchase of the solar PV system a a prepayment of our electric purchase . With electric deregulation come to Pennsylvania , we anticipate that our payback time will become shorter with each future rate increase . Installing the geothermal HVAC system first make the most sense for u . We be at the point that we have to replace our HVAC system and the geothermal system be the best choice for u . It allow u to reduce the variety of utility we previously use for heat ( fuel oil , wood pellet ) to just one ( electricity ) . Cost wise , we feel that we have see a slightly fast payback time on our geothermal HVAC system purchase than with our solar PV system . video series home series installer series blog series Video Series The ground beneath our foot be warmer then the outside air in the winter and cooler in the summer . More Map Project 1 Million geothermal heat pump be use in U.S. already . Geothermal user add your system to the map ! More Find an Installer Installation be the most important part of a Geothermal System , not the brand of equiptment you choose . More By The Numbers Read about 1 family 's geothermal journey include cost , result , and rationale for retrofitting their home . More 30 % Geothermal Tax Credit Increasing Fossil Fuel Prices Reduce Carbon Emissions Air Conditioning & Hot Water Financing for Ground Source A 30 % government geothermal tax credit thanks to a Federal Stimulus package through 2016 . Propane , Heating Oil , and Natural Gas Prices be all expect to rise through 2020 . Cut your carbon footprint by 50 % . Save on average about four ton of CO2 a year . More It go from a heat plant to AC unit with the flip of a switch while also heat your home's hot water . Special Loans , Government program , and other incentive have never look well . Site Sponsor Home Geothermal 101 Savings Calculator Find a Contractor About Privacy Copyright 2009-2014 GeothermalGenius.org TM . All right reserve . 