FAQs FirstEnergy Corp . FirstEnergy Home | Careers | Contact Us | Log In Log Out Home My Account View My Bill Pay My Bill View Payment History Payment & Billing Options View Bill Inserts Manage My Account Submit Meter Reading Service Requests Start Service ( Move In ) Stop Service ( Move Out ) Report Tree Problem Report Lighting Problem Request Electrical Work Customer Choice Ohio Pennsylvania New Jersey West Virginia Maryland New York Outages Report Power Outage View Current Outages Report Lighting Problem Safety Downed Power Lines Safety in the Home High Voltage Info Maintaining Trees Using Backup Generators Save Energy Ohio Pennsylvania New Jersey West Virginia Maryland Products Save Time Save Money Improve Your Home Protect Your Home Help Manage My Account Billing & Payments Making Service Requests Outages Safety Saving Energy Useful Brochures & Forms Communication Tools Help Managing My Account Billing & Payments Making Service Requests Outages Safety Saving Energy Communication Tools Pennsylvania Smart Meters FAQs Radio Frequency/Health Security and Privacy Installation Schedule What You Can Expect : Meter Installation Online Resources and Fact Sheets Contact Us Contact Center Useful Brochures & Forms Help Pennsylvania Smart Meters FAQs FAQs What be a smart meter ? Who pays for the smart meter technology ? What if I do n't want a smart meter ? When will a smart meter be instal on my home/business ? Will I be notify when I be receive a smart meter ? Do I need to make an appointment for my smart meter installation ? How can I tell if my meter be a smart meter ? Will power to my home or business be interrupt during the meter installation ? Who will be instal my meter ? Is my usage information transmit by smart meter secure ? Will unauthorized people be able to monitor my account to learn more about how I use energy in my home ? After I get my smart meter , will I be able to see more detailed information about how my home us electricity ? Will you limit the amount of electricity I be allow to use ? Are smart meter a accurate a my current meter ? Will I receive few estimate bill with a smart meter ? How do you know that the information you get be for my meter and not my neighbor ? Will I be expose to radio frequency from smart meter equipment ? I have a smart meter , so why am I still see meter reader ? If the power go out , do I still have to call the utility company ? If Im late pay my bill , will the utility company be able to turn off my power without send a representative to the location ? Where can I find more information on smart meter ? What be a smart meter ? A smart meter be a digital electric meter that collect electricity usage information and sends that data to the local utility through a secure telecommunication connection . Return To Top Who pays for the smart meter technology ? Pennsylvania Act 129 mandate that customer pay for the development and deployment of smart meter technology throughout our service area . A charge for the smart meter program be review and approve by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission on an annual basis and be subject to change . Return To Top What if I do n't want a smart meter ? The company be require by Pennsylvania law to install a smart meter for all of our Pennsylvania customer . Return To Top When will a smart meter be instal on my home/business ? In 2013 , the company begin provide smart meter in new construction and to all residential , commercial and industrial customer who request them.In 2014 , the company have startedinstalling smart meter tocustomers in Penn Power 's service area.Please see our Installation Schedule for a more detailed look at when we will be instal meter in your area . Return To Top Will I be notify when I be receive a smart meter ? Approximately one month before your meter be exchange , you will receive a brochure in the mail to provide you with information about the meter and the installation process . A few week prior to the actual installation date , you will receive a letter that will give you the time period when we will be in your area to exchange your meter.On the day of the installation , an installer will come to your door to let you know they be instal your meter.If no one be home , we will leave a door hanger either indicate that the meter have be change or ask you to contact u to schedule an appointment to change your meter . Return To Top Do I need to make an appointment for my smart meter installation ? Most smart meter installation will be perform without an appointment . Every effort be make to notify you in advance of your meter installation . In addition to mailing , the installer will come to your door before beginning work.Appointments for special need will be handle on a case-by-case basis . Return To Top How can I tell if my meter be a smart meter ? Smart meter be digital , so they will display number instead of dial . In addition , our smart meter have a blue stripe across the face . Return To Top Will power to my home or business be interrupt during the meter installation ? For home , there will be a brief interruption in your electric service when the meter be be instal , so you may need to reset some of your electronic equipment . For business , your power might be interrupt during the installation . The meter installer will be able to determine if an interruption will occur when the work be be done . Return To Top Who will be instal my meter ? The meter will be instal by company personnel or our installation vendor , Wellington Energy.Please be aware that all of our installers will be carry proper identification . If the installer can not show you an identification card , or if you have a concern about that person identity , please call Wellington Energyat 1-888-317-8815 . Return To Top Is my usage information transmit by smart meter secure ? Yes . FirstEnergy place the utmost importance on the security and protection of all aspect of our electric system and associate subsystems.Our communication network be a high security environment that use multiple layer of protection from unwanted access include the use of password , firewall , data encryption , continuous monitoring and other security controls.We follow the cybersecurity guideline publish by the National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) .In addition , Pennsylvania regulation restrict access to customer information , and do not permit an electric company or electric supplier to release private customer information to a third party without customer consent . Click here for our Fact Sheet on Security and Privacy . Return To Top Will unauthorized people be able to monitor my account to learn more about how I use energy in my home ? Smart meter measure how much energy be use , base on time of day not how that energy be use . A smart meter can not tell which specific electric equipment be use the energy . The company smart meter solution be base on industry best practice , and build on a secure network design to protect customer data . Check here for more information about how FirstEnergy be help keep your information secure . Return To Top After I get my smart meter , will I be able to see more detailed information about how my home us electricity ? Yes.After your meter be instal and the utility start gather your usage in interval , you will be able to access that information use our online Home Energy Analyzer tool .The company will notify you when this functionality be available to you . Return To Top Will you limit the amount of electricity I be allow to use ? No.The company will not limit the amount of power you can use . Return To Top Are smart meter a accurate a my current meter ? Smart meter use state-of-the-art technology that ensure accurate reading while provide customer with information they need to well manage their electricity use.Like the meter of today , we test each smart meter accord to stringent American National Standards Institute ( ANSI ) standard to ensure they be accurate . Click here for our Fact Sheet on Accuracy . Return To Top Will I receive few estimate bill with a smart meter ? Yes . Since we will be able toread smart meter remotely , we will have easy access to the meter information . Please note that this functionality will be implement over time , so meter reader will continue to manually read the smart meter for some time after the meter be instal . Return To Top How do you know that the information you get be for my meter and not my neighbor ? Data collect from a meter and transmit wirelessly contain specific , unique identifier associate with the customer 's meter number and service address . These field be validate numerous time to ensure accuracy before the data be use for billing . Return To Top Will I be expose to radio frequency from smart meter equipment ? While smart meter emit a low level of radio frequency ( RF ) , RF exposure from smart meter be a fraction of the level that come from other commonly used household device , such a cell phone , garage door opener , television , baby monitor , microwave and wireless internet . Also , advance meter system only transmit data for a few second per hour , and at average level far below the safety standard specify by the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) . Click here for more information about RF and smart meter . Click here for our Fact Sheet on Radio Frequency . Return To Top I have a smart meter , so why am I still see meter reader ? Although the smart meter have be instal , the functionality of the meter will be implement over time mean , the company be gather your usage information but must also then evaluate and verify the accuracy for some time before we start use that information for bill . Return To Top If the power go out , do I still have to call the utility company ? Yes , for the time be . If your power go out , please call 1-888-LIGHTSS ( 1-888-544-4877 ) to report itso we can identify the problem and respond promptly . Return To Top If Im late pay my bill , will the utility company be able to turn off my power without send a representative to the location ? Although the system will provide theutility company the ability to disconnect a meter remotely for non-payment situation , a company representative will still visit the premise in person at disconnection , in compliance with the current Pennsylvania Public Utility Commissionrules . Return To Top Where can I find more information on smart meter ? Click here for a list of website that contain helpful information regard smart meter . Return To Top Last Modified : December 4 , 2014 Quick Links FAQs Radio frequency/health Security and privacy Installation schedule What you can expect Online resource and fact sheet Contact u FirstEnergy Home Our Electric Companies Privacy & Legal Statement Web Terms of Use My Account View My Bill Pay My Bill Manage My Account Billing & Payment Options Assistance & Service Programs Submit Meter Reading Service Requests Start Services ( Move In ) Stop Services ( Move Out ) Report Tree Problem Report Lighting Problem Request Electrical Work Products Save Time Save Money Improve Your Home Protect Your Home Get Help Contact Us Mobile Tools & Social Media Site Map 2015 FirstEnergy Corp . 