10 way to make your kitchen more green : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social 10 way to make your kitchen more green Team Treehugger HTGG July 9 , 2014 Share on Facebook Williamson Chong The eco-friendly kitchen begin with eat green , but it do n't end there . Energy-efficient food preparation and clean habit , use equipment make from sustainable material , and dodge toxic chemical be also important if you want to have a truly healthy kitchen . Fortunately , make the right choice for your well-being be also good for the pocket and the planet . Our straightforward and simple suggestion for prepare earth-friendly meal -- from fridge to food to cleanup -- will turn you into a greener gourmet in no time . `` When it come to kitchen , size and equipment do n't count nearly a much a devotion , passion , common sense and , of course , experience . To pretend otherwise -- to spend ten of thousand of dollar or more on a kitchen before learning how to cook , a be sadly common -- be to fall into the same kind of silly consumerism that lead people to believe that an expensive gym membership will get them into shape or the right bed will improve their sex life . As runner run and writer write , cook cook , under pretty much any circumstance . '' - Mark Bittman Top Green Kitchen Tips Make It Last Choose cookware and utensil that stand the test of time and wo n't have to be throw away with your leftover casserole . That mean you get ta ditch the Teflon . While the debate about the health hazard of non-stick surface continue , there be no doubt that it have a limit useful life . Go for stainless steel or cast iron instead . Though a bit of an investment , a good cast iron skillet will last for generation . Likewise , choose sturdy utensil rather than cheap one ; low-quality wooden spoon , for example , can rot , and plastic will melt if you leave it on the stove too long . Buy high-quality knives that you can sharpen by hand , and use long-lasting cloth towel instead of paper . There 's nothing wrong with want to experiment with cook , but before you go out to buy a whole bunch of gadget that you might only use once , check if there be a kitchen library in your neighborhood . You may be able to find the appliance or tool you need with out shell out load of money or contribute to the further depletion of the planet . Energy Smackdown : Gas vs. Electric When it come to the stove top , it can be a tough choice between gas and electric ; natural gas be a fossil fuel , but most of the electricity in the US come from coal-burning power plant . From a straight-up cooking perspective , many cook prefer gas because it 's easy to control temperature ; it also offer instant-on heat , and do n't waste much heat when the cooking be do . If you 're a gas devotee shop for a new stove , know that the the low the BTU output , the more energy-efficient your stove will be . With electricity , the most efficient stove be those that use induction element , which transfer electromagnetic energy directly to the pan , leave the cook-top itself relatively cool and use less than half the energy of standard coil element . One drawback be that induction-element cook-tops require the use of metal cookware such stainless steel , cast iron , or enamel iron -- aluminum and glass pot wo n't work -- and since the technology be still relatively , they 're generally only find in higher-priced model . The same go for unit with ceramic-glass surface , which use halogen element a the heat source , make them the next best choice from an efficiency standpoint . These deliver heat instantly and respond quickly to change in temperature setting . ( They 're also very easy to clean , which be a bonus ) . But they only work efficiently when there be good contact between the pan and the hot glass surface ; energy will go to waste if pan bottom be even slightly round . Standard electric coil -- those spiral type we 're all use to seeing -- by the way , be at the bottom of the barrel when it come to energy efficiency . If you go for an electric stove , no matter which you choose , opt for the most efficiency-efficient model possible , then purchase green power to support electricity from clean , renewable source . Do n't forget , electric stove be a healthy option than gas stove , which can add between 25 and 39 percent more NO2 and CO to the air in the house . The stove you ultimately choose will probably depend on price and lifestyle , so the green choice you can make be really to pick the option that you 'll be able to live with for at least a decade or more , which will save on material and resource from a manufacturing standpoint . First , Love Your Appliances Energy-efficiency upgrade be come fast and furious to many new appliance . An efficient dishwasher , for instance , can use a lot less water than wash the dish by hand in the sink . ( Check out How to Green Your Dishwasher to learn more . ) But before you jump the gun and make a hasty appliance purchase , check to make sure that a repair be n't in order . If the time have indeed come to get rid of an old appliance , note that many community have take-back program , help you to properly dispose of these thing , which likely contain hazardous chemical and material . When you replace your old-faithfuls look for the Energy Star rating , available for kitchen appliance include stove , refrigerator , freezer , and dishwasher , then choose a sturdy model that will last and choose a simple design - you do n't need an internet connection on your oven . You also do n't need an oven exhaust , which tends to be a badly design and ineffective appliance . If you 're get a new fridge , think small . A lot of food would last longer if it be n't place in the fridge in the first place . Fruit , for example go rotten much faster in the fridge because the ethylene gas it let off as it ripen get trap in the fridge . Buying a small fridge and put less in it save you lot of energy and save your food too ! Energy-Efficient Cooking Preheating be almost prehistoric . Many newer oven come to temperature so rapidly , they make preheat almost obsolete ( except perhaps for souffls and other delicate dish ) . If you 're roast or bake something that 's a little flexible when it come to cook time , you can put it in right away , then turn the oven off five or ten minute early , and let dish finish cooking in the residual heat . ( Ditto for anything cook on an electric stove top . ) Making a best use of the oven a possible -- cook more than one thing at once , for instance -- be also wise . For small dish , use a toaster oven , or reheat in a microwave will also save energy ; in fact , Energy Star estimate that you can reduce cooking energy by as much a 80 percent when use the microwave instead of the oven . When cook on the stove , use a properly size pot for each of the stove burner also make a difference ; on an electric stove , for example , a 6-inch pot use on an 8-inch burner waste more than 40 percent of the burner 's heat . Make sure all of your pot and pan have close-fitting lid , then use them whenever possible -- include when you 're bring boil water up to temperature -- which help reduce cook time and keep heat where it belong -- in the pan . Pressure cooker be another great way to save energy , reduce cooking time by up to 70 percent . Of course , the most energy efficient cook mean leave heat out of the equation altogether -- do n't forget about salad , chill soup , and other dish that require little prep and can be eat cold . There 's a large niche culture grow around the idea of raw food -- do n't be afraid to try something new ! Do It Yourself Avoid purchasing pre-prepared , freeze food , and make them yourself , at home ; many meal be make to be freeze and reheat without any loss in taste or quality , so there 's no reason to thaw and rehydrate freeze and dehydrate food when you can skip these step and buy and cook fresh . As an add bonus , you also know exactly what be go in to your food , and , if you 're diligent about source it , where it come from . This option also cut out step of your food 's lifecycle ( and the associate energy in processing and transportation that come from each step ) . If you have the space , take it a step far and grow your own fruit , vegetable , use your compost kitchen waste a fertilizer . Do n't stop the DIY train there , though : you can clean your counter and hand-wash dish with white vinegar and bake soda . Instead of shell out for bottle water , get a filter pitcher or tap filter . You could even buy a seltzer siphon or carbonator to fizz your filter water and flavor it with homemade syrup ; we recommend the Soda Club or one of it contemporary . Buy Local The food you bring in to your kitchen be just a important a the gadget and appliance you have there , so buy local whenever you can . Food mile have rise near the top of eco-friendly food consideration , and the fewer mile from farm to table , the good . Organic grape from Chile might taste good in the dead of winter , but consider the pollution cause by flying them to wherever you be . In addition , since they 're bereft of preservative , biocides and many other nasties that inhabit conventional food , organic food can spoil more quickly , mean that the longer your bunch of grape be in transit , the less pristine it condition be likely to be . Whenever possible , we recommend support a community support agriculture ( CSA ) co-op , buying from local farmer ' market or purchase directly from farmer themselves . Bulk Up Buy in bulk and cook in bulk ; just make sure you can consume what you purchase and produce ! ( See Waste Not , Want Not below for more detail on that ) . Purchasing from the bulk bin mean le packaging , and few trip to the store , and can also mean financial saving . It 's not just for grocery , either : for example , you can buy bulk package of towel intend for cleaning and detail car , and use them in the kitchen . They 're extremely sturdy and a lot cheaper than most kitchen towel ( not to mention much less disposable than paper towel ) . Bulk cooking be a more efficient use of appliance energy and your time , ( and a great excuse to throw a party ) , so cook up a nice big pot of soup and anticipate save ( and eat ) lot of leftover . And plan ahead ; plan meal that can fee you and your family for a few day be a great way to shop efficiently and free up your precious leisure time . Waste Not , Want Not On average , the kitchen generate the most waste of any room in your house ; for one of the main reason , look no further at the excessive packaging on supermarket shelf . But fear not , it 's not a hard a it may seem to cut back on waste . Step one : refuse excessive packaging by taking your own bag , buy fresh , unwrap produce , and think carefully about how the purchase you 're make be wrap up . Step two : avoid over-sized portion ; if you be regularly throw food away then you be buy , and cook , too much . Step three : reuse what you can , like old glass jar or bottle , grocery bag , and packaging you ca n't avoid . Step four : compost any uncooked organic waste ( include cardboard and paper ) , and do n't fret if you do n't have a garden on which to spread your yummy humus . Even in big city , many local farmer market and organization will gladly accept your compost . After all this , if there 's anything leave over , be sure to swing by the recycle bin before toss anything in the trash . Green Kitchens Can Be Clean Kitchens The list of what go into regular petrochemically-based dishwashing liquid , detergent , floor and surface cleaner and other household clean product be enough to turn anyone 's stomach . Fortunately there be plenty of natural cleaning company out there produce non-toxic , biodegradable , plant-based detergent ( see our How to green your cleaning routine for more detail ) . And a we mention in the Do It Yourself tip above , you can always create your own cleaning product use everyday ingredient such a vinegar and bake soda , which combine to make a great all-purpose , non-toxic cleaner . Remodeling ? Recycle Of course , make your old kitchen work for you be the green option of them all , but there come a time when even the green folk need to upgrade or replace . If you be in the market for a new kitchen , turn first to salvage and antique . They do n't make 'em like they use to , so look for kitchen fitting , floor , panel , and cabinet that have have a previous life , be unique and have already stand the test of time . If you 're trade thing out , be sure to offer them on Freecycle or Craigslist before kick them to the curb . If reclaim material wo n't do the job for you , there be plenty of green option for new material too . Green countertop make of recycle paper and yoghurt pot , to bamboo and cork floor -- be sure to do your homework about the option available and their environmental impact ( remember , all bamboo be not create equal ) and stay tune to the Green Guides for more remodel suggestion ! Williamson Chong Green Kitchens : By the Numbers $ 30 billion : Money save by Americans use ENERGY STAR appliance , light , and windows in 20013 , save the energy equivalent to 277 million metric ton of greenhouse gas emission . 70 percent : The amount of household and yard waste that can be compost rather than thrown in the trash . 70 percent : The reduction in cooking time and energy use from use a pressure cooker to cook your food . 12 percent : The percent of household energy use that come from cook in Western Australia ; compare that to 67 percent in Ghana . Sources : ENERGY STAR , Del Norte Solid Waste Management Authority , Fagor Pressure Cookers , Government of Western Australia 's Sustainable Energy Development Office , Government of Ghana 's Ministry of Energy . Green Kitchens : Getting Techie Pressure cooker be seal cook pot that do not permit air or liquid to escape below a certain preset pressure . Because the boil point of water increase a the pressure inside the cooker increase , a pressure cooker allow the liquid in the pot to rise to a temperature higher than 100 C ( 212 F ) before boil , thus speed up cook time considerably , accord to Wikipedia . Solar oven be insulate box with a transparent lid , allow the sun 's ray to heat up the inside of the box like a greenhouse . They sometimes also include reflector that concentrate solar energy , thereby increase temperature in the oven . Solar oven be often promote by humanitarian organization in area where deforestation be an issue , but they be gain popularity in the developed world a well , where they be garner a reputation for creating intense , bold flavor that can only come from slow , careful , sun-powered cooking . Chest freezer , the old-fashioned kind with a horizontal lid , be much more efficient than their vertical counterpart . One of the main reason for this be that heat rise , and cold air fall , so when you open the door of a regular freezer , the cold air just fall out . Air in the chest freezer , on the other hand , stay put when the door be open . Freezers can be make even more efficient by be kept in a cool place , such a an outdoor storage room , basement or garage , and they can even be clothe with extra insulating material . Slow cooking with crock pot be a great way to cook in an energy efficient manner . Once the crock pot be bring to temperature , it insulation can keep it hot for up to 6 hour . Talk about save on the electricity bill ! Slow cooking be also a great way to produce delicious food . With report by Manon Verchot Related on TreeHugger.com : 10 reason to go green starting NOW 10 way to improve your recycling How to green your cleaning routine Tags : Bamboo | Carbon Emissions | Cleaning | Energy Efficiency | Local Food facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW Farm in a box produce an acre 's worth of crop in a shipping container Without Bound : Doc share fascinate story of mobile living nomad ( Video ) 24 profoundly beautiful word that describe nature and landscape DIY Beekeeping : Download and print a smart beehive kit A good shower : Save water , energy , and money with a thermostatic shut-off valve The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late Summer home build with salvaged material be a `` treehouse for adult '' So you use oil ? No , that do n't make you a hypocrite The Rise of Disc Golf : A Greener Alternative to 'Ball Golf' LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 