Two Speed And Multi Speed Swimming Pool Pump [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Home Contact Me Troubleshooting Tips Hot Deals Services I Provide ADA pool lift Virginia Graeme Baker Ecosmarte System Pumps and Motors LED light Controls Alternative Sanitation Pool Filters Leaks Pool and Spa Heating Pool Resurfacing Automatic Cleaners Robotic Cleaners Tile Cleaning Pool Covers/Fences Swimming Pool Photos Calculations/Formulas Hiring a Poolman Auto water leveler Whole House Filtration Salt Chlorine Systems Links Spas Service technician Solar Pumps Chemical Automation Multi Speed/Two Speed Swimming Pool Pumps DWP in Los Angeles be give $ 500.00 rebate on these pump Free Shipping on multi speed pump ! Link at bottom of page for calculating energy saving on these pump Links near bottom of page for various pump The link near the bottom of this page will take you to a multi speed pool pump energy calculator so you can see your energy saving and daily cost to run pump . Also , see the motor section for multi-speed motor . So how do multi speed pump save electricity and how do they work ? Here be some real world example : ... on a 28,000 gallon pool I instal a Pentair PEN011012 variable speed pump and set pump to turn entire volume of pool over once a day run 18 hour a day use less than 300 watt while run . Her old pump have a 2 HP motor draw 11.5 amp and run 8 hour a day at an average of over 21 kilowatt a day ... .she now run at 5 kilowatt a day . So she save about 75 % a year . At an average of 14.5 cent a kilowatt , thats over 800.00 a year saving . On another customer , he be run a 1.5 HP pump 8 hour a day at around 15 kilowatt at .20 cent a kilowatt hour or $ 3.00 a day ... .his new pump ( Pentair PEN011018 ) run at 2000 RPM 's for a half hour in the morning and a half hour at the end of day to run pool cleaner , and 7 hour a day in skimmer mode at 1400 RPM 's for a total of 2 kilowatt a day or .40 cent a day for a saving of about 949.00 a year - however when he use his solar heating he use a high speed ( 2500 RPM 's to pump water up to second story roof ) which come to 7 kilowatt a day for let say four month of the year so the ACTUAL saving be probably a little over 800.00 a year give or take depending on how many month or day of the year he use his solar heating . He COULD solar heat his pool at a much lower speed but he want a waterfall like effect from his raise spa overflow to his pool even in solar heat mode . The example above be in southern california which may have a high rate than your area , and be large upper middle class home that may have be on a high tier rate - also the pump be run in the middle of the afternoon which be the peak rate especially in summer . Its quite possible their saving be actually high but I just go by an average kilowatt rate . I have instal many 2-speed pump and have come to the conclusion they be an inefficient compromise compare to multi speed pump for several reason : 1 ) Although they be less expensive , they require some type of automation to prime in high speed for a minute or two before go to low speed to prime . The automation device can negate the cost saving . 2 ) A two speed pump be about 1750 rpm at low speed ... a multispeed pump can run much low . 3 ) Even at the same speed , the permanent magnet multi speed pump be more efficient . 4 ) The rebate from ultility company ( up to 1000.00 ) usually only apply to multiple speed pump . Pump Affinity Law Speed R.P.M . ( revolution per minute ) = Flow G.P.M ( gallon per minute ) Speed R.P.M . = Power3 ( energy use ) Example : Reduce speed 3000 RPM -- > 1500 RPM 1/2 Speed RPM = 1/2 GPM 1/2 Speed RPM = 1/2 x 1/2 x 1/2 = 1/8 energy use 3000 RPM - > 1000 RPM 1/3 Speed RPM = 1/3 GPM 1/3 Speed RPM = 1/3 x 1/3 x 1/3= 1/27 energy use On the last example above , you can see how you must run pump 3 time long because you be pump only 1/3 the gallon per minute ... .however , you be only use 1/27 the energy so even if you run pump three time as long , you be only use 1/9 the energy and thats where the saving be ! The PUMP shown above be a low cost option for a small pool system and/or smaller 1.5 '' plumb and still apply for utility rebate . The Hayward SP2300VSP about 500.00 USD less than a regular multi-speed pump . Has a speed range of 600-3000 rpm 's and need 230 voltage . Multi speed pump offer several advantage over single speed pump 1 ) Much quiet ( can be run at night even if next to a bedroom window and will run cooler ) 2 ) In some area electricity be less expensive at night especially in summer 3 ) Water filter good at low speed , result in small particle be filter out ( especially noticeable at night with pool light ) However , there be some circumstance where low speed on a 2-speed motor can not be use : 1 ) If your swimming pool equipment be much high than pool level ( unless you have a `` programmable '' system where the pump can come on at high speed for a few minute to catch prime and then switch to low speed . ( many varible speed pump have the programming build in ) 2 ) If you have solar panel and water must be pump up to roof ( again if you have programmable system with valve that close when solar panel be not be use then the pump can be switch to a low speed at these time , and if you have a multiple speed pump the speed can be set somewhere in between high and low for pump up to roof ) 3 ) If you have a suction type automatic pool cleaner , it may not work on low speed . It depend on the type of clean and the HP of pump . For example , I have find that Kreepy Krauly pool cleaner work great on low speed , however some cleaner like Pool Vac or Navigator may work on a 2 HP low speed pump but not a 1.5 HP low speed pump . If you have a dedicate line for a pool cleaner and automatic control , the pool cleaner can be program to come on high speed for an hour , and then the valve turn by actuator to skimmer and motor switch to low speed for rest of night . Also , some multi speed pump ( such a Pentair model ) have a 3 H.P . size impeller , unlike most two speed pump , so the impeller pull more water even at low speed . Below be a few different type of multi speed pump The Hayward EcoStar pump above be similar to the Pentair and Sta Rite pump but be more flexible in the installation - the keypad ( first photo below ) can rotate 360 degree or be mount up to 500 foot away from the pump , and can be control by pool system control via cable , one or more relay , or a valve actuator . Below be the keypads-an LCD screen denote it have the build in controller to qualify for rebate program . The pump above be the Jandy Flo Pro 2 H.P . pump ... .first the pro : 1 ) Easy to install because it come with union , a handle to carry , multiple base option to match the plumbing height of several different manufacturer exist pump . Probably a good choice for a do-it-yourself with limited tool 2 ) Can work with thinner wire ( 14 gauge ) because it limit to 2 HP ( the Pentair need 12 gauge in case it run at full speed but can be program with a speed limit ) ... .again , if you be instal yourself and have thinner 14 guage wire this be one less thing to do . 3 ) Jandy be a well know name with excellent factory support The Cons : 1 ) Cost the same a the Standard Pentair varible speed 3 HP pump - even though most exist pool can never use that much horsepower , I would think run a 3 HP motor/impeller combination at a slightly low speed would be more efficient or at least less wear on the motor than run a 2 HP motor/ impeller at a high speed for the same flow rate ... but then again I be not an electrical engineer so perhaps I be wrong . 2 ) Pump portion of pump/motor combo be not a hydraulically efficient a exist Pentair pump so you probably have to use a few watt more for the same flow..its probably not a huge number , but if they be close to the same price , why not get the more efficient pump and more powerful motor combination ? Shown below be the Intelliflo XF which be the top of the line multi speed pump . 1 ) It will have one of the best permanent magnet motor available 2 ) High hydraulic efficiency 3 ) Unions for easy intallation 4 ) A large , hard basket which keep it shape 5 ) A carrying handle 6 ) Able to except 2.5 '' or 3 '' plumb 7 ) Because of it market domination , part will be easy to acquire The pump above be the Hayward Max Flo VS , which be for small pool with 1.5 '' plumb - Pentair have a reduce version of their Intelliflo call the Intelliflo i1 Multi-speed pump work in the same way a two speed pump , but can be run at any RPM ( revolution per minute ) . This mean they can be run at even low speed than 2 speed pump . ( A two speed pump run at about 1725 RPM 's at low speed ) ... I have instal multi speed pump that filter the water fine ( AND also run an automatic pool vacuum ) at 1400 RPM ... .Multi speed pump have several advantage over two speed pump , and there be several company that make or be in the process of release multi speed pump but here be a few advantage of some of the model out now ( not ALL multi speed pump have ALL these feature ) : 1 ) Can save more electricity than 2 speed pump ( depend on speed select and 2 speed pump 's HP ) . With multi speed pump you get a low low setting and a high high setting . A two speed pump have a set horsepower at high speed , and low speed be half the RPM 's ... so with a multi speed pump you can use less electricity than a two speed pump on day to day filter , but get high flow than a two speed pump for something like a waterfall or spa jet . 2 ) Have build in software that shuts pump off if it run dry saving costly repair 3 ) Built with permanent magnet motor that produce less heat than regular induction motor , and also 30 % more efficient ( even at high speed ) 4 ) Has software that automatically find the most efficient speed to run ( RPM 's ) 5 ) If you have automatic control , you set a different speed for different function ( low speed for filtering , high speed for spa jet , medium for a waterfall or other water feature , etc . 6 ) Rebates that now apply for 2 speed/multi speed pump may only apply to multi speed pump in near future 7 ) Also available with software that shuts off pump in case of cavitation ( such a a child get stuck on main drain ) or pump run dry Disadvantages : 1 ) More expensive than two speed pump ( however with the control now require by utility company to qualify 2 speed pump for rebate they be about the same or at least not much different ) 2 ) If you be in an area where electrical rate be cheap , it may not be worth it to buy a multi speed pump ( instead of an efficient SINGLE SPEED 1/2 HP fully rat pump run at the time of day or night with the best electical rate ) unless : A ) : You have a waterfall , fountain , spa , or the equipment be raise above the level of pool or some other reason you may need a high horsepower or more rpm 's than a two speed pump or 1/2 HP single speed pump B ) : You have a large pool which require more time to turn over water C ) : You simply want the MOST energy saving and the best equipment . The link below will take you to a pool pump energy cost calculator that will give you a basic idea of energy saving with one of these type of pump : Calculate your cost saving compare to single speed pump Pentair Multi Speed Pumps Marathon Impower Motor Jandy VS Flo Pro Pump Jandy E Pump ( shown at top of page ) Free Shipping on multi speed pump ! 