Carbon tax merely a blip in power price scandal Skip to navigation Skip to content Help use this website - Accessibility statement JavaScript disable . Please enable JavaScript to use My News , My Clippings , My Comments and user setting . My News My Clippings My Comments My Benefits Today 's Paper Subscribe Log in Register Personalise your news , save article to read late and customise setting If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . 11:00AM Friday Mar 6 , 2015 8585 ( 0 ) online now Do you know more about a story ? contact u Close Provide detail information , include contact detail ( if relevant ) Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Newsletters Fairfax Media Network More Close News & Weather smh.com.au theage.com.au brisbanetimes.com.au canberratimes.com.au nationaltimes.com.au watoday.com.au weatherzone.com.au Business & Finance businessday.com.au brw.com.au afr.com afrmagazine.com.au smartinvestor.com.au investsmart.com.au Lifestyle life & style dailylife.com.au thevine.com.au essentialbaby.com.au essentialkids.com.au findababysitter.com.au goodfood.com.au Classifieds domain.com.au drive.com.au adzuna.com.au rsvp.com.au stayz.com.au Advertise with u Newsletters Full list of site About Fairfax Media Privacy Terms & Conditions The Age Comment Letters Editorial Obituaries View from the Street Blunt Instrument You be here : Home Comment Search age : Search in : Comment theage.com.au Web Comment Carbon tax merely a blip in power price scandal Date July 16 , 2014 ( 29 ) Comments 292 Read late Ross Gittins Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Illustration : Kerrie Leishman . Prime Minister Tony Abbott be right about one thing : the price of electricity have shoot up and be now a lot higher than it should be . It 's a scandal , in fact . Trouble be , the carbon tax have play only a small part in that , so get rid of it wo n't fix the problem . Until a rotten system be reform , the price of electricity will keep rise excessively , so I doubt if many people will notice the blip cause by the removal of the carbon tax . ( As for the price of gas , it will at least double within a year or two , a the domestic price rise to meet the international price , make the carbon tax removal almost invisible . ) So Abbott will be in bother if too many voter remember all the thing he have say about how much the tax be responsible for the rise cost of living , how much damage the tax be do to the economy and how much better everything would be once the tax be go . He would be wise to change the subject and join the push to reform the electricity pricing arrangement . Advertisement A new report by Tony Wood and Lucy Carter , of the Grattan Institute , Fair Pricing for Power , say that over the past five year the average Australian household 's electricity bill have rise by 70 per cent to $ 1660 a year . And this have be happen while the amount of electricity we use have be fall , not rise . Just why electricity demand have be fall be a story for another day . The cost of actually generate the power account for 30 per cent of that total . The cost of deliver the power from the generator to your home via pole and wire that be , the electricity transmission and distribution network account for 43 per cent of the total . That leave the cost of the electricity retailer the business you deal with account for 13 per cent of the total bill , with the carbon tax make up 7 per cent and the various measure to encourage energy save or use of renewables make up the last 7 per cent . Of these various component , the one that do most to account for the rapid rise in overall bill be the cost of the physical distribution network . Whereas there 's fierce competition between the now mainly privately own power station , the network business still government-owned in NSW and Queensland , but privatise in Victoria and South Australia be natural monopoly . This mean the price the network be allow to charge whether government or privately own be regulate by government authority . And this be the source of the problem . Loopholes in the price regulation regime have make it easy for the network business to feather their nest at the expense of you and me . Why would a government-owned network business want to overcharge ? Because their profit be pay to the state Treasury , which need all the cash it can get . So the NSW and Queensland government gain by look the other way while their voter be rip off . The gouging have n't be nearly a bad in privatise Victoria , where electricity price be well below the national average . An early report from the Grattan Institute identify four main fault in the system use to regulate the price of network business : the pricing formula allow excessive rate of return , consider essential monopoly be low risk ; government ownership lead to excessive investment in infrastructure and reduce efficiency ; reliability standard to prevent blackout be wastefully high ; the pricing formula reward investment in facility you do n't really need . The various combine state and federal regulatory body have belatedly begin attempt to fix these problem , but they could do a lot more if the politician prod them hard . Meanwhile , the late Grattan report propose a solution to one aspect of the over-investment problem : cop with peak demand . The trouble with electricity network be that , if you want to avoid blackout , the network have to be powerful enough to cope with the period when a lot of people be use a lot of electrical appliance at the same time , which these day be a hot afternoon . Over the course of a year , these occasion be surprisingly few , so you end up have to build a lot of capacity , which be expensive , but then be rarely use . It would make far more sense to encourage people to avoid such extreme peak in their demand . The way the pricing system work at present , however , be that far from discourage people from buy airconditioners and turn them on full blast on very hot afternoon , they 're subsidise by those householder who do n't . The simple answer would be for the part of people 's bill that relates to their share of network cost to be change from charge for how much power they use to a capacity-based charge . That be , they pay accord to the maximum load they put on the network in peak period . The result would be to remove the subsidy between high and low-capacity user , increase or reduce their bill by up to $ 150 a year . The great benefit would be the price signal sent to high-capacity user to reduce their use of appliance during peak period and save . As people respond to this incentive , the need to keep adding to the network 's capacity would fall , thus reduce the need for high electricity price . 292 comment Let 's just say the carbon tax be contribute 7 % to the overall electricity bill and you find that minimal be that an admission that it 's ineffective in achieving it 's goal ? Where would the incentive be for industry to switch to renewable energy if it be make minimal difference to the bottom line ? Ca n't have it both way Ross . The carbon tax be an awful policy whether leave or right , it 's half bake tokenism and we should be thankful it 's to be dead and bury this week . Commenter Piped Piper Date and time Tue Jul 15 20:03:00 UTC 2014 Abolishing the carbon tax or ETS will have a minimal affect on price but it will increase the government deficit and harm Australia 's reputation . The Direct Action plan be much worse since it will not be as effective in reducing carbon pollution but cost about the same . Doing nothing at all will encourage other country to do the same lead to poor outcome a predict by the climate expert a oppose by the propagandist . Commenter Good Logic Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:02:28 UTC 2014 hi Piped Piper - Let 's say that someone instal new , more efficient turbine and drop their carbon per kw hour by 50 % , they would halve that cost and perhaps sell at 3 % less than their competitor . ( Ok , make it 2 % to cover the cost of retool ) . That get them great market share and force their competitor to improve their performance to compete . But your premise be wrong . There be a substantial drop in carbon emission from power producer in the week after the tax be introduce , so the tax work . Abbott get the Carbon Tax completely wrong . He do n't understand Market Forces 101 . Commenter Ross Location MALLABULA Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:26:36 UTC 2014 I 've always wonder that too . `` The carbon tax will give a price signal to people to reduce demand '' v `` The carbon tax barely make a dent in price - it 's just a Liberal scare campaign ! '' Commenter Get a Grip Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:28:00 UTC 2014 This article be not about the carbon tax but it point out that 43 % of the cost of electricity be down to the behaviour of the distributor - `` gold plat the network '' a it 's be call by some . Nobody say that 7 % cost from the carbon tax or 7 % from renewable energy target be ineffectual but the LNP be quite happy to let everyone believe that all their pain be due to the carbon tax and clearly that just be n't true . Commenter Charlie Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:30:51 UTC 2014 So the coalition ditch the carbon tax , which be some assistance in make polluter pay for the damage we cause to the environment . But what be they replace it with , a vague direct action policy , much of which seem cloud cuckoo land stuff about snatch carbon from the smoke stack and bury it . The Liberal manifesto spruiks about the 15,000 strong green army , be these green people come from Mars ? The usual ostrich approach from the Abbott Government , just stick your head in the sand and hope it will all go away . Commenter DaveB Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:31:23 UTC 2014 You certainly can have it both way . You be assume the cost to the consumer be the same a the cost to the supplier . Also , you be not take into account the compensation the consumer receive . Commenter Lacka Location intelligence Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:38:15 UTC 2014 The carbon tax ax have be transform into a gift to the energy business . Any refund to customer will be lose in the cheering , and Clive 's input will prove shambolic . The policy have a purpose , now it 's just extra profit margin . Tony Abbott say on the day that he last federal election be call that he would not lead a government that deal with minor party and independent ! So to remove this policy , what have Abbott done - lie , again . Commenter Tin Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:39:59 UTC 2014 There 's an elephant charging at u ( the pole and wire rort ) and a badger charge at u ( the carbon tax ) . Tony Abbott only have one bullet and this week he use it to shoot the badger . Commenter Daktari Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:43:51 UTC 2014 Let 's say it 's less than 7 % and let 's say that it open and promotes employment and investment opportunity in new industry and technology that appear to be emerge quickly all over the world . Do n't count on your financial planner backing this one - old school give big kick back . And the privatization model that leap to mind be Sydney airport . How can this ever work for the consumer in a monopoly/oligopoly scenario . Commenter boatperson Date and time Tue Jul 15 21:45:55 UTC 2014 More comment Comments be now close Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Advertisement Most popular 1 Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran 's plight raise ... Contains : total comment 203 2 Intergenerational report prepare by Baby Boomers ... Contains : total comment 152 3 Bruised and batter , but more genuine , Tony ... Contains : total comment 121 4 Daniel Andrews entering the political danger zone Contains : total comment 20 5 Joe Hockey turn intergenerational report into a ... Contains : Most Commented Articles Baby Boomers put the boot in to young people 152 comment Bomb Islamic State : be that our only strategy ? 102 comment It 's murder be President 29 comment Science community begs government to continue funding vital research infrastructure 24 comment Will you , can you , maintain your rage ? 5 comment Featured advertiser < ! -- UI NOTE : Make iframed content accessible : -- > < a href= '' http : //assets.betterbills.com.au/widgets/AGE-VIC.html '' > View these special offer by BetterBills. < /a > LATEST VIDEO Featured Videos More video Debating the next 40 year The government 's Intergenerational Report be release , but what do it all mean ? With Liberal Wyatt Roy , Labor 's Amanda Rishworth and Fairfax 's Chris Johnson . From 10.30am . PT0M0S 300 169 Thu Mar 05 23:29:13 UTC 2015 Click to play video Hunt 'relieved ' after cocaine fine '' Click to play video Brisbane stabbing : 'yelling and scream ' `` Click to play video Put your pollie on the spot '' Advertisement Compare and Save Skip to : Best Deals Mobile Broadband Home Loans Credit Cards Low Rate Cards Rewards Cards Savings Accts Money Deals Loans Check out today 's best deal 0 % p.a . for 14 Months Plus no annual fee for the life of the card Find Out More Low Variable Rates Discover low variable home loan rate from 4.25 % More Info 60,000 Bonus Points Plus 0 % on balance transfer for 6 month Find Out More iPhone 6 We compare all carrier and deal Compare Deals Deals for 2015 Switching network or stay , we compare it Compare Deals Readers ' most view Most view article on Brisbane Times Top 5 Comment article Bali nine duo execution : Two wrong do n't make a right Conquering cancer with carrot juice Sex romp : Caught out and never forget The sting of public service appointment Face reality : the West be at war with Islam Most view article on WA Today Top 5 Comment article Statistics be sexy : we try to find your next partner in Perth Bomb Islamic State : be that our only strategy ? Bruised and batter , but more genuine , Tony Abbott have lighten up Intergenerational report prepare by Baby Boomers who have the best deal of any generation Derek Rielly : How to survive a 40th birthday party Most view article on The Sydney Morning Herald Top 5 Comment article Bruised and batter , but more genuine , Tony Abbott have lighten up Bomb Islamic State : be that our only strategy ? Joe Hockey turn intergenerational report into a propaganda weapon Moral argument for life of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran , not a political one Conquering cancer with carrot juice Most view article on Canberra Times Top 5 Comment article Joe Hockey turn intergenerational report into a propaganda weapon Lee Rhiannon 's logic over Nigel Hadgkiss akin to ethical violence Bomb Islamic State : be that our only strategy ? Intergenerational report prepare by Baby Boomers who have the best deal of any generation Australia 's census and health statistic too valuable for 'done deals' Most view article on The Age Top 5 Comment article Bomb Islamic State : be that our only strategy ? Bruised and batter , but more genuine , Tony Abbott have lighten up Joe Hockey turn intergenerational report into a propaganda weapon Intergenerational report prepare by Baby Boomers who have the best deal of any generation Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran 's plight raise question about Australia 's 'Stop the Boats ' policy The Age Home Victoria National Environment Opinion Business Technology Digital Life Entertainment Life & Style Travel Cars Exec Style Sport Weather The Age Sitemap About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us AM Today Last 8 day Text Version Site Accessibility Guide Connect Mobile Site The Age for iPad Digital Edition RSS Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Products & Services Subscribe Manage My Subscription My Benefits Good Food Guide The Age Shop Newsletters Cracka Wines Classifieds Place an Ad Accommodation Cars Dating Jobs Property Price Data Real Estate Buy and Sell Tributes Celebrations Fairfax Media Member Centre Conditions of Use Privacy Policy News Store Archive Photo Sales Purchase Front Pages Fairfax Syndication Fairfax Events Fairfax Careers Press Council Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Buy & Sell Cruises Lawyers Credit Cards Business Mechanics Electricians Fitness Hair Salons Weddings Home Builder Cracker Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media 