Is it cheap to use gas or electric for cooking and heating my house ? | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Is it cheap to use gas or electric for cooking and heating my house ? By This Is Money , Ask The Experts Published : 00:21 EST , 31 July 2012 | Updated : 02:45 EST , 31 July 2012 18 View comment Is it be cheap to cook or bake in a gas oven or an electric one ? And would it be cheap to heat a room at 18c use an electric halogen heater rather than run a gas radiator ? A home energy expert , from not-for-profit energy group Ebico , reply : I assume that the oven be modern , and of similar size and energy rating ( A ) . Both oven be thermostatically control , so reduce the energy use once the desire temperature be reach , which be standard functionality in oven . Heating up : Cooking with gas be generally cheap than electricity , accord to our Ebico home energy expert With this in mind , then the decision have to come down to the cost of the energy to raise the oven temperature to the desire level . Gas cost around 6p per Kilowatt hour ( KWh ) and electricity 12p per KWh , so basically , it be cheap to cook use main gas . On the second question , the answer be extremely difficult to answer without more specific detail , a each dwell will perform differently due to a range of factor , include resident behaviour , and building energy performance ( level of insulation etc . ) . Insulation level should always be improve when this be appropriate , save money , and improve overall comfort level . The heating configuration will be different between house ( thermostat position , it setting , and whether Thermostatically Controlled Radiator Valves ( TRVs ) be fit ( and their individual setting ) . All of this will affect the cost of heating . Taking a very general and simplistic view , in term of use the gas central heating to heat the building to 18C , the well-recognised 'Sutherland Tables ' suggests that a three bedroom house , heat to normal level , with a modern boiler would cost about 910 per year . Sutherland also suggest that heating a single room with an electric heater would cost around 505 a year . More ... Is it cheap to run an electric or power shower ? How do I know if I already have cavity wall insulation ? How can I keep my house warm without it cost a small fortune ? Is it cheap to put the heating on high for a short time or long at a low temperature ? Electricity be a much more expensive form of energy for heating , when compare to natural gas . Halogen heater 'warm ' object by radiation , and therefore this have a different feel to that of traditional convect heat produce from the familiar source . Halogen heater be highly directional in term of their effect . Gas heating will provide a good all-round whole house heat . There be probably well electrical heating solution available depend on your need , but this would need a detailed survey from a reputable supplier/installer , who be capable of designing a new heating system , and compare run cost for different system , to allow you to make an inform decision . Home Energy Expert be a free energy advice service from Ebico , the UKs only not-for-profit energy company and National Energy Action , the UKs lead fuel poverty charity , commit to improving the quality of life of low income household and campaign for warm home . Home Energy Expert have team up with This be Money to answer any burning question about energy in your home . If you want to improve your energy efficiency and save money then email your question with Home Energy Expert in the subject line to : editor @ thisismoney.co.uk . For more information click on to : www.ebico.org.uk Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 18 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . MARKET DATA FTSE 100 Diary RNS Sectors A to Z Gilts Top mover Indices Funds Director deal Shares Gold / oil New issue Brokers Charting News Forex Heatmaps Share alert News alert All market data DEALS AND OFFERS 12.50 share deal Dividend reinvestment just 0.5 % Buy discount fund Check out our fund supermarket Free investment brochure Useful info by post or email Annuity rate Best buy and calculator Latest report from News Bank of England face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe Engineering the future : QinetiQ set for growth push under new chief Virgin Money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double Employees on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group Savers ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year Osborne hail 'major victory ' over Europe a Britain win landmark legal battle to protect Square Mile Bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place Legal & General profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt ITV dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the Downton Abbey broadcaster Bank of England chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say Mark Carney World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the chart again - and London do n't even make top ten Morrisons treasurer Paul Coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading MORE HEADLINES 30 SEC GUIDES We look at the big accountancy firm and the lack of competition in the market The Big Four Find out more VIEWS , TIPS & SPECIAL REPORTS ALEX BRUMMER Why politician and mortgage provider need to help out Generation Rent now Healthcare go hi-tech Smart gadget to revolutionise pharma in the hunt for cure MIDAS SHARE TIPS : Lights , camera ... and more action for Cineworld a 2015 begin well for the movie industry SIMON WATKINS Britain be now enjoy a good recovery , but keep bubbly on ice HOT TOPICS AND PREDICTIONS What next for interest rate ? Forward guidance have be rejigged but when will base rate rise ? What next for mortgage rate ? Should you fix or track ? And which be the best deal ? What next for house price ? The property market be on the up fuel by cheap mortgage and taxpayer help LATEST MARKET DATA Tables : Popular share Tables : Risers and faller Share data : Company A to Z Latest : Broker view and share tip Hot stock : Banks Latest from Markets Massive money print programme unleash by European Central Bank in bid to breath life into eurozone 's ail economy Boost for Aviva shareholder a insurance giant raise dividend by 30 % ahead of Friends Life takeover World Cup and Commonwealth Games fail to help power giant Aggreko weather the impact of a strong pound Admiral bos say number one worry revolves around 'irrational competitor ' a firm post 4 % fall in profit for 2014 MARKET REPORT : Rumours abound of cash-rich US private equity group offer for Weir Group London Stock Exchange bos predict flurry of market activity a European economy move into a 'sweet spot' FTSE CLOSE : Footsie hit fresh closing record at 6961.14 a ECB announces imminent launch of QE Acquisition cost , slowdown in military and security spending blast 81 % off annual profit for defence engineer Cobham Aviva use profit rise to boost dividend but insurer warns on work to do before firm be back to full health London Stock Exchange bos eye up fresh wave of new market listing after best year for float in 2014 for seven year Profits at car insurer Admiral fall for first time since 2004 but chief executive boast 'we still make a lot of money' Virgin Money staff celebrate second bonus in a year a bank share out soar profit MORE HEADLINES SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve 