Heat Pump Pool Heaters FAQ Heat Pumps Frequently Asked Questions Why heat my pool ? Choosing the right heating system Types of heat pump pool heater How do a heat pump work ? How will a heat pump perform ? Do I need a pool cover ? Cost of operation What size do I need ? Can I install it myself ? Energy Rating and Efficiency Why heat my pool ? You buy your pool for a number of reason like family fun , exercise , entertain and possibly even therapeutic reason . However you 've probably find that without heating your pool it 's often too cold to enjoy . Heating your pool will allow you to enjoy it all season , perhaps all year round , thereby increase the return on your sizable investment . Choosing the right heating system There be three basic type of pool heating system : Solar , Electric Heat Pump , and Gas ( Natural or Lp/Propane ) . Deciding which system be the best match for you and your pool be determine by considering the factor below : Water temperature desire Swimming season desire Geographic location / climate Spending plan / project budget The size/shape of the pool , plus shading/wind factor Cost of operation For detail information please see : Side-by-Side Comparison Guide Types of Heat Pump pool heater There be two basic type of pool heat pump . The most common be `` Air-Source '' , the other be `` Water-Source '' . Air Source Heat Pumps , use air a a heat source . Water Source Heat Pumps get their heat source from water i.e . lake , river , or well water . In the section below we explain how `` air-source '' heat pump work . Water source unit be generally use for special application ; for more information on water source unit , call our help desk at 800-333-9276 . How do a Heat Pump work ? `` Air Source '' Heat Pumps utilize the sun 's free heat by collecting and absorb energy from the outside air . This energy be then compress and transfer to the pool water . Your exist pool pump circulate the water through the heater and warms the pool . The fan circulates air through the outer evaporator air coil that act a a heat collector . The liquid refrigerant in the air coil absorbs the available heat in the ambient air transform it into a gas . The refrigerant gas be then pump into the compressor . When this warm gas be compress , it intensify or concentrate the heat like a magnifying glass in the sun . This intensely hot gas be then pump into the heat exchanger condenser where the actual heat transfer take place . As the pool water pass through the heat exchanger , the hot gas give up it heat to the cooler pool water . The refrigerant return to a liquid state and be pump through the expansion valve then into the evaporator air coil to start the process all over again . How will a Heat Pump perform ? Heat pump technology can efficiently collect heat from the outside air down to the 45 to 50 degree range . For tropic and sub tropic climates , this mean that the pool can be maintain at 80 to 90 degree under almost all condition all year round . In northern climates , a Heat Pump will greatly extend the swimming season . For temperature below 45 degree , a Hot Gas option can be add which will allow the Heat Pump to continue to collect heat ; however , efficiency drop a the temperature drop . To determine the potential swimming season in your area , see the Solar Insolation Map and chart below : Swimming Seasons Zone No Heater Heat Pump 1 6-7 month 12 month 2 4-5.5 month 12 month 3 4.5 month 10 month 4 3-4 month 9 month 5 3 month 6.5 month 6 2 month 5 month 7 1-1.5 month 3-4 month Do I need a pool cover ? A Thermal Pool Cover be recommend for all heat system . Heating a pool without a cover be like heating a house without a roof ... the heat just go right out the top . Without a pool cover , the cost of operating a Heat Pump or Gas Heater be double , and a Solar Heater 's effectiveness be dramatically decrease . For convenience a roller may be add to ease placement and removal of the cover . If a pool cover be not be use , the size of the heater must be increase by 75 % - 100 % . Pool cover range in cost from $ 50 to $ 200 for residential pool ; Pool blanket roller offer in many style and quality start at $ 185 . Cost of Operation Example : The chart below illustrates pool heating cost with and without a cover for each month when heating be require . To maintain 80 degree water temperature in a 14 x 28 pool , 4ft . average depth , low wind speed , in Ft. Myers , Florida , @ .070/kwh local electric will cost approximately : To heat this pool with a Heat Pump @ .070 /Kwh would cost : `` With A Cover `` $ 291.00 Per Year . `` Without A Cover '' $ 726.00 /Yr . NOTE : To heat the same pool with a L.P. Gas Heater @ $ 1.50/Gal . would cost : `` With A Cover '' $ 2,036.00 Per Year . `` Without A Cover '' $ 5091.00 /Yr . A pool heat pump will heat your pool for 70 % to 80 % less money than a L.P. gas type heater and 50 % to 60 % less than natural gas type heater . Heat pump cost far less to operate than any other `` demand type '' pool heater period . Heating cost vary with : geographic location , desire water temperature , wind speed , sun exposure , use of cover and swim season . The Energy SuperMarket can provide you with a computerized report detail the estimate cost of operation base on your exact pool criterion by call 888-333-9276 or by printing the sizing form below . What size do I need ? Sizing of a heat pump pool heater be base on the pool 's surface area , geographic location , environmental condition such a shading , wind , blanket against night time heat loss , and more . See size . Can I install it myself ? Each model of heat pump can be instal by the handyman , although it be strongly recommend that the electric hookup be make by a professional contractor . It typically take less than a day to have a heat pump instal and run . Installation manual be include with each Heat Pump . Energy Rating and Efficiency Pool/Spa heat pump be rat on B.T.U . output and C.O.P . efficiency : B.T.U . [ British Thermal Units ] be the measure amount of heat output the unit will produ 