Induction charger and Powermats - How do they work ? You be here : Home page > Electricity and electronics > Induction charger Home A-Z index Get the book Follow u Random article Timeline Teaching guide About u Privacy policy Advertisement Induction charger Tweet by Chris Woodford . Last update : November 13 , 2014 . I f you 've get an electric toothbrush with a plastic bottom , you might have marvel at how it charge up apparently by magic standing on what seem to be a plastic stand ! How do two bit of plastic charge up the battery inside your toothbrush when there be no direct metallic contact between them ? How on Earth can electricity flow between two plastic insulator ? What 's happen here be a neat trick call induction charge and we 're about to take a closer look at how it work . If you do n't already know the basic of how ordinary electric transformer work , you might like to take a quick look at our article on transformer before you continue . If you 'd like to know about other kind of charger , you might prefer to look at our article on battery charger . Photo : An electric toothbrush standing on it induction charger . The battery in the brush charge up even though there be no direct electrical contact between the plastic brush and the plastic charger unit in the base . So how do electricity pas through two layer of plastic ? How ordinary charger work Most of the small electronic appliance we use in our home work on relatively low voltagestypically 5-10 percent a much voltage a hefty electric appliance like vacuum cleaner and clothes washer . That mean we generally need to use transformer to `` step down '' the domestic voltage so it will safely power electronic gadget without blow them up . All those charger you have ( little box attach to wire that plug into thing like your MP3 player and cellphone ) actually have electricity transformer hide inside . It 's easy to understand how these simple charger work : electricity flow into the charger from the electricity outlet on your wall . Inside the charger , a transformer `` step down '' the electricity to a much low voltage . The low-voltage current then flow from the charger into the battery in your appliance . The important thing to note be that all three part of the transformer ( the primary coil , the secondary coil , and the iron core link them together ) be contain inside the charger : Photo : Ordinary electric charging : all the component of the transformer be contain inside the charger . How induction charger work So far so goodbut what happens with something like an electric toothbrush , which have no power lead to plug into the wall ? When you stand the toothbrush on it charger , how do the electricity flow from it plastic-coated base into the battery inside the brush when plastic be an insulator ( that be , do n't allow electricity to flow through it ) ? It 's not magic we have hereit 's just another kind of transformer in a cunning disguise . An electric toothbrush and it charger use a transformer just like a cellphone or an MP3 player , but it 's cleverly split into two piece , with half the transformer in the bottom of the toothbrush and the rest of it in the charger base it stand on : Artwork : Induction charging : half the transformer be in the toothbrush ; half be in the stand . The primary coil be in the charger base and it have an iron peg on top of it cover in plastic . The secondary coil be in the base of the toothbrush , which you stand on the iron peg . What 's the peg for ? It 's not just to stop the toothbrush wobble about : it 's the core that link the primary and secondary coil together electromagnetically . When the toothbrush be stand on the peg , you 've get a complete transformer that work by electromagnetic induction : energy flow from the coil in the base to the coil in the toothbrush via the iron peg that link them . The two end of the coil in the toothbrush be simply hook up to the rechargeable battery inside . Photo ( leave ) : The bottom of an electric toothbrush have a hole in it so it sit securely on the `` peg '' on the baseactually the core of the transformer . The copper coil ( right ) be just above the plastic base , run around the hole . A charger that work like this be call an induction charger . Safety be the main reason for use an induction charger in the bathroom : you do n't need a power cable or expose lead come out of the base of your toothbrush , which typically get wet . Electric shaver often use induction charger for the same reason . Photo ( right ) : The copper charge coil from inside an electric toothbrush . The coil work a the secondary coil of a transformer . It 's fit at the very base of the brush and sits around the little iron peg on the charger stand when the brush be sit on it base . The two lead from the coil connect to the rechargeable battery inside the toothbrush . How do a Powermat work ? Wireless mat-type charger ( sell under the trademark brand name Powermat ) be induction charger too . The mat work a one part of a transformer ( essentially like the stand of an electric toothbrush ) , while the other part of the transformer be either a circuit embed inside your device ( like the coil inside the base of a toothbrush ) , a pad that clip onto the back on your device , or , for a cellphone , a replacement battery cover with a built-in charging coil that connect to the charging socket . There 's no magic involve : it 's just electromagnetic induction again ! Artwork : A Powermat use exactly the same principle a an electric toothbrush charger . If you have a cellphone mat charger , it work like this . One part of the charger ( the primary coil ) be inside the mat . The other part clip onto the back of your phone , usually a a replacement battery cover . This bit contain the other part of the charger ( the secondary coil ) and connects to your phone 's charger port ( or the battery 's terminal inside the phone ) . Tweet Find out more On this website Batteries Battery charger Electricity Magnetism Transformers Books Wizard : Life and Times of Nikola Tesla by Marc J. Seifer . Citadel Press , 1998 . A biography of one of the pioneer of our modern electrical age . Tesla devote much of his time to put induction to practical use . Tesla : Man out of Time by Margaret Cheney . Simon & Schuster , 2001 . An alternative biography explore how Tesla 's strangely compulsive personality drive his farsighted contribution to field such a robotics , electric power , missile science , and computing . Electricity and Magnetism by W.J . Duffin . McGraw Hill ( Various edition and date ) . A clear and concise undergraduate text ( the one I use myself a few year ago ) . Articles The late way to charge your device without wire : BBC News , 23 July 2010 . A review of a couple of cellphone induction charger . Wireless power system shown off by Jonathan Fildes . BBC News , 23 July 2009 . A demonstration of Witricity 's wireless electric charge system and how it can be use in everything from cellphone to electric car . Videos SmartKetai : Review : Powermat Wireless Charger for HTC EVO 4G : Unboxing & Overview : A simple description and demonstration of a Powermat add-on for an HTC cellphone ( mobile phone ) . Sponsored link Please do NOT copy our article onto blog and other website Text copyright Chris Woodford 2007 , 2012 . All right reserve . Full copyright notice and term of use . Powermat be a register trademark of Powermat Ltd.. Follow u Rate this page Please rate or give feedback on this page and I will make a donation to WaterAid . Share this page Save this page for late or share it by bookmarking with : Cite this page Woodford , Chris . ( 2007 ) Induction charger . Retrieved from http : //www.explainthatstuff.com/inductionchargers.html . [ Accessed ( Insert date here ) ] induction charger and powermats - how do they work ? you be here : home page > electricity and electronics > induction charger home a-z index get the book follow u random article timeline teach guide about u privacy policy advertisement induction charger tweet by chris woodford . last update : november 13 , 2014 . i f you 've get an electric toothbrush with a plastic bottom , you might have marvel at how it charge up apparently by magic standing on what seem to be a plastic stand ! how do two bit of plastic charge up the battery inside your toothbrush when there be no direct metallic contact between them ? how on earth can electricity flow between two plastic insulator ? what 's happen here be a neat trick call induction charge and we 're about to take a closer look at how it work . if you do n't already know the basic of how ordinary electric transformer work , you might like to take a quick look at our article on transformer before you continue . if you 'd like to know about other kind of charger , you might prefer to look at our article on battery charger . photo : an electric toothbrush standing on it induction charger . the battery in the brush charge up even though there be no direct electrical contact between the plastic brush and the plastic charger unit in the base . so how do electricity pas through two layer of plastic ? how ordinary charger work most of the small electronic appliance we use in our home work on relatively low voltagestypically 5-10 percent a much voltage a hefty electric appliance like vacuum cleaner and clothes washer . that mean we generally need to use transformer to `` step down '' the domestic voltage so it will safely power electronic gadget without blow them up . all those charger you have ( little box attach to wire that plug into thing like your mp3 player and cellphone ) actually have electricity transformer hide inside . it 's easy to understand how these simple charger work : electricity flow into the charger from the electricity outlet on your wall . inside the charger , a transformer `` step down '' the electricity to a much low voltage . the low-voltage current then flow from the charger into the battery in your appliance . the important thing to note be that all three part of the transformer ( the primary coil , the secondary coil , and the iron core link them together ) be contain inside the charger : photo : ordinary electric charging : all the component of the transformer be contain inside the charger . how induction charger work so far so goodbut what happens with something like an electric toothbrush , which have no power lead to plug into the wall ? when you stand the toothbrush on it charger , how do the electricity flow from it plastic-coated base into the battery inside the brush when plastic be an insulator ( that be , do n't allow electricity to flow through it ) ? it 's not magic we have hereit 's just another kind of transformer in a cunning disguise . an electric toothbrush and it charger use a transformer just like a cellphone or an mp3 player , but it 's cleverly split into two piece , with half the transformer in the bottom of the toothbrush and the rest of it in the charger base it stand on : artwork : induction charging : half the transformer be in the toothbrush ; half be in the stand . the primary coil be in the charger base and it have an iron peg on top of it cover in plastic . the secondary coil be in the base of the toothbrush , which you stand on the iron peg . what 's the peg for ? it 's not just to stop the toothbrush wobble about : it 's the core that link the primary and secondary coil together electromagnetically . when the toothbrush be stand on the peg , you 've get a complete transformer that work by electromagnetic induction : energy flow from the coil in the base to the coil in the toothbrush via the iron peg that link them . the two end of the coil in the toothbrush be simply hook up to the rechargeable battery inside . photo ( leave ) : the bottom of an electric toothbrush have a hole in it so it sit securely on the `` peg '' on the baseactually the core of the transformer . the copper coil ( right ) be just above the plastic base , run around the hole . a charger that work like this be call an induction charger . safety be the main reason for use an induction charger in the bathroom : you do n't need a power cable or expose lead come out of the base of your toothbrush , which typically get wet . electric shaver often use induction charger for the same reason . photo ( right ) : the copper charge coil from inside an electric toothbrush . the coil work a the secondary coil of a transformer . it 's fit at the very base of the brush and sits around the little iron peg on the charger stand when the brush be sit on it base . the two lead from the coil connect to the rechargeable battery inside the toothbrush . how do a powermat work ? wireless mat-type charger ( sell under the trademark brand name powermat ) be induction charger too . the mat work a one part of a transformer ( essentially like the stand of an electric toothbrush ) , while the other part of the transformer be either a circuit embed inside your device ( like the coil inside the base of a toothbrush ) , a pad that clip onto the back on your device , or , for a cellphone , a replacement battery cover with a built-in charging coil that connect to the charging socket . there 's no magic involve : it 's just electromagnetic induction again ! artwork : a powermat use exactly the same principle a an electric toothbrush charger . if you have a cellphone mat charger , it work like this . one part of the charger ( the primary coil ) be inside the mat . the other part clip onto the back of your phone , usually a a replacement battery cover . this bit contain the other part of the charger ( the secondary coil ) and connects to your phone 's charger port ( or the battery 's terminal inside the phone ) . tweet find out more on this website battery battery charger electricity magnetism transformer book wizard : life and time of nikola tesla by marc j. seifer . citadel press , 1998 . a biography of one of the pioneer of our modern electrical age . tesla devote much of his time to put induction to practical use . tesla : man out of time by margaret cheney . simon & schuster , 2001 . an alternative biography explore how tesla 's strangely compulsive personality drive his farsighted contribution to field such a robotics , electric power , missile science , and computing . electricity and magnetism by w.j . duffin . mcgraw hill ( various edition and date ) . a clear and concise undergraduate text ( the one i use myself a few year ago ) . article the late way to charge your device without wire : bbc news , 23 july 2010 . a review of a couple of cellphone induction charger . wireless power system shown off by jonathan fildes . bbc news , 23 july 2009 . a demonstration of witricity 's wireless electric charge system and how it can be use in everything from cellphone to electric car . video smartketai : review : powermat wireless charger for htc evo 4g : unboxing & overview : a simple description and demonstration of a powermat add-on for an htc cellphone ( mobile phone ) . sponsored link please do not copy our article onto blog and other website text copyright chris woodford 2007 , 2012 . all right reserve . full copyright notice and term of use . powermat be a register trademark of powermat ltd.. follow u rate this page please rate or give feedback on this page and i will make a donation to wateraid . share this page save this page for late or share it by bookmarking with : cite this page woodford , chris . ( 2007 ) induction charger . retrieved from http : //www.explainthatstuff.com/inductionchargers.html . [ access ( insert date here ) ] 