Smart Oven BOV800XL Convection Toaster Oven | Breville Product Registration Find a Retailer My Breville Shopping Cart Beverages Blenders Coffee Grinders Coffee Makers Espresso Immersion Blenders Juicers Kettles & Tea Makers Cooking Bread Makers Deep Fryers Electric Cookware Grills Microwave Ovens Ovens Pizza Maker Rice Cookers Sandwich Makers Slow Cookers Snack Makers Toasters Waffle Maker Food Preparation Blenders Bread Makers Food Processors Ice Cream Makers Immersion Blenders Juicers Mixers Parts Search for Parts & Accessories Enter your product name or product code below to find part and accessory for your product - OR - Ca n't find the Parts & Accessories that you 're look for ? Replacement part and accessory be available through Breville 's customer call center or register service agent . Browse Parts & Accessories by Category Beverages Espresso Kettles & Tea Makers Coffee Makers Coffee Grinders Immersion Blenders Cooking Grills Ovens Toasters Bread Makers Deep Fryers Slow Cookers Snack Makers Woks Steamers Rice Cookers Food Preparation Mixers Blenders Bread Makers Food Processors Immersion Blenders Juicers Ice Cream Makers Find a Retailer Support Loading ... `` > the Smart Oven with Element IQ The 1800 watt countertop oven that do the think for you . Automatically adjust the independent heating element ensure an exact cooking process . 9 menu function suggest the ideal temperature and time , and the oven remembers them for the next use . Toasts evenly , make delicious cooky , bake perfect pizza , and roast succulent meat . The convection option speed your cooking time by as much a 30 % . Product Dimensions : ( L ) 18.5 '' x ( D ) 16.25 '' x ( H ) 11.25 '' 17lbs Get the Manual for this product . This product have 193 Reviews | Add Your Review BOV800XL $ 249.99 Add To Cart Find a Retailer Videos Tech Specs Parts & Accessories Recommended Reviews Support Chef Sisha Ortzar 's Roasted Prawns with Salsa Verde Recipe Breville Smart Oven User Guide in 90 Seconds Chef Sisha Ortzar 's Summer Squash Recipe Tips and Tricks : The Smart Oven The Thinking Behind The Smart Oven Capacity 6-slice toast 13 '' ( 33 cm ) pizza capacity 0.8 cu ft ( .02 cu m ) interior Element IQ Element IQ put the power where it need most . For each of the 9 pre-set program , Element IQ delivers the right power at the right time and when adjust to taste , it even remember . Convection An inbuilt fan that circulate the hot air within the oven . It speed the cooking process by stripping away the cold air that surround your food . Pre-set Functions 9 pre-set program , Toast , Bagel , Bake , Roast , Broil , Pizza , Cookies , Reheat and Warm . Nonstick Cavity Coating The wall on the inside of the oven feature a non-stick coating for easy cleaning . Additional Features Function Dial Time Dial Temperature Conversion Button Frozen Foods Defrost Button Backlit , Easy-Read LCD Convection Fan Pull-Out Crumb Tray Insulated Dual Wall Door and Glass Window Included Accessories 13 '' ( 33 cm ) non-stick pizza pan 12 '' 12 '' enamel bake pan 12 '' 12 '' enamel broil rack ( 30.5cm 30.5cm ) Warranty 1 Year Limited Product Warranty Dimensions N/A Notes on Features Element IQ put the power where it need most . For each of the 9 pre-set program , Element IQ delivers the right power at the right time and when adjust to taste , it even remember . 9 pre-set program , Toast , Bagel , Bake , Roast , Broil , Pizza , Cookies , Reheat and Warm . Auto-Rack Eject for easy removal of hot item . Innovations Element IQ Auto-Rack Eject Compare the Smart Oven Compare Product Bamboo Cutting Board for Smart Oven ( for BOV800XL ) $ 39.99 13 '' Non-Stick Pizza Crisper $ 19.99 13 '' Non-Stick Pizza Pan $ 19.99 13 '' Pizza Stone $ 29.99 12 '' 12 '' Enamel Baking Pan $ 10.99 12 '' 12 '' Enamel Broiling Rack $ 9.99 Wire Rack $ 12.99 People who like the above product like these , too : the Kinetix Task ikon 600 Blender the Kinetix Pro the Power Blender Optiva Blender the Power Blender the Light & Mighty the Baker 's Oven ikon Baker 's Oven Reviews Reviews 1 - 10 of 193 | Page : 1 2 3 4 5 ... 20 Show 10 20 50 per page February 8 , 2015 Worst Electric Product `` This be the workst electric product I have ever see . The reliability of the setting be very poor . My first Smart Oven die just after a year . William Sonoma replace it but the process take month to complete . The one they replace it with it die with a poof and spark . Both William Sonoma and Breville be offer me discount to buy a new one . I would not buy this or any Breville product ever . They be stylish but the performance be overrate and the quality be dismal. `` January 29 , 2015 Short Life `` I love my little convection oven but after only two year to the day it completely die . I use it for toast and to roast potatoes and side dish and small cut of meat like pork loin . I never use the broiler . One day the panel go out . After ruling out issue with the outlet , etc. , a quick search of the internet reveal that this be a common problem with this product . Since I be beyond the warranty , Breville could not replace it . I think two year be too little life span for a $ 300 product and it seem like this be not an anomaly but a common problem . I 'll try another brand now a I like have a back up oven . '' January 25 , 2015 Great when it work `` I purchase my oven two year ago . At the time we really love it , but after only 60 day it start post an error message any time we try to use it for anything but toast . I try to get on line support but get so frustrate try to get help I give up and start use a a very large and expensive toaster . Once in a while I think maybe it will work and try to bake or broil someting . Sometimes it work for a few minute but usually it errors before it reach temperature . Tonight I decide I need to write a review since I once more tried to heat a lof of bread but it be futile . I be now look for a toaster a I pick the unit up and toss it into the dumpster in our complex . For those of you who be lucky enough to get one of these that have work reliably I congratulate you . For those I see with the same issue I have I sympathize . '' November 22 , 2014 Wonderful little oven `` This little oven be totally awesome ! ! I guess really the only fault I find with this oven be that there be no light inside . I have to shine a flashlight inside just to see how the food be do . Maybe on the next oven they 'll add an inside light ! '' November 19 , 2014 OK But need Improvement `` It do n't self clean , grate be like old-timey-grill-racks extremely hard to clean . Grates need the heat resistant cover for easy clean . The oven be not tall enough to rise bread in and bake it ... I guess they want you to buy their bread maker . Other than those two major flaw it be an excellent oven . '' November 13 , 2014 Best Toaster Oven Ever ! `` We have have this toaster oven for 10+ year . No problem . Works great ! The ONLY thing be we wish it be SELF CLEANING a it be hard to clean inside the wall from cooked on food spatter . The rack be dishwasher safe too when wipe dry . The crumb tray be easy to clean and we put in a liner and clean it after every use . We use it for toast bread , casserole , roast chicken , 13 '' or less homemade or freeze pizza , bread & non bread fish & seafood , bake potatoes , stuff pepper , cake , cooky , bar , roast duck , scallop potatoes , broil burger , bake mac n cheese , roast vegetable , pie , homemade bread , bun - ALMOST anything you cook in a regular oven . We use for a year in our Class A RV instead of oven in RV because it do n't cook a evenly a this oven do . Does n't heat up the house a much a a regular oven do and cook MUCH fast , use MUCH less energy . It have be through NUMEROUS power outage and still work when electricity be restore . ( We NOW have it on a safety breaker . ) Can use a no handle 9 X 13 pan with high side for lasagna , stuff pepper . Be careful not too high . Cover with foil if too close to top . It have 3 level for pan use , and bake , roast , toast , or broil . Love that it turn off after timer go off , UNLIKE my expensive Professional JennAire Oven . We usually buy a toaster oven every 3 year so we have come out WAY AHEAD this time in what we spend . THANKS BREVILLE ! LOVE YOUR PRODUCT ! ! ! '' October 4 , 2014 A Great Product But Delicate `` I love this oven . It 's a perfect alternative for baking small item , pie , one layer or loaf cake , small meatloaf , potatoes , etc . It operate just like another oven so it toast and broil a well . I purchase one two year ago . The element broke ( on it own , no provoking ) , and the oven be replace under warranty . Now 18 month , the replacement oven quit work . There be no warning or issue , just work one day , the next , none of it function be work . It appear a if it have be unplug ; not even the digital reading come on . When I call to have it repair , it would be $ 99 for the repair , or it would be replace for that if it could not be repair , plus I have to box it up and return it . I like the oven well enough to purchase another one , but this be the last straw . The Hamilton Beach I just give to my nephew be still work after 7 year . '' September 12 , 2014 Wo n't get another `` Purchased BOV800XL several year ago ( 3-4 ) . Used primarily for toaster and normal oven ( time ) function . Unit fail ( complete failure - no function work ) while under warranty and be replace gratis ship be include . The second unit have now fail ( start a toaster would or would not work - timer do but heating element do not then bake quit too ) . It be well out of warranty and more than a year since replacement . Contacted support and they check my registration of the product to verify it be out of warranty . Was offer standard repair rate ( think it be $ 125 and pay shipping in ) or with , I think , 90 day warranty pr new unit at 30 % off and ship include , full one year warranty . With two complete failure of the in what I feel be an unreasonably short time I do not see any reason to send more money to Breville . This be our first Breville product and it will be our last . '' August 14 , 2014 Ca n't say enough good about Breville `` We purchase one of these unit about 5 year ago and use it everyday , often several time . It never come up short in term of what we ask it to cook . When it door spring fail recently , Breville replace the complete unit with a refurbished one . They even cover the cost of ship back the old one back . From the time we ask for the return label unto the new unit be in our home be just about a week . Thanks Breville ! '' August 14 , 2014 Ca n't say enough good about Breville `` We purchase one of these unit about 5 year ago and use it everyday , often several time . It never come up short in term of what we ask it to cook . When it door spring fail recently , Breville replace the complete unit with a refurbished one . They even cover the cost of ship back the old one back . From the time we ask for the return label unto the new unit be in our home be just about a week . Thanks Breville ! '' Submit Your Review You must be log in to submit a review . Download the Smart Oven Product Manual PDF Common Support Questions for this Product How do I reset the default setting ? The LCD screen display an `` E '' error code . What should I do ? The LCD screen will display an 'E ' error code when there be a non-resettable issue with the appliance . Should this occur , immediately remove the power cord from the wall outlet and call the Breville Customer Service Center ( 1-866-BREVILLE ) . Breville Customer Service Have a question about your product ? We have a support site with live manual that will help you . Illustrated step-by-step instruction Video for an Out of the Box experience Tips for use your Breville appliance good Directions for clean , care for , and maintain your product Videos demonstrate answer to common question Breville Customer Support on www.BrevilleUSASupport.com Copyright 2013 Breville USA . All right reserve . Privacy Policy Social Responsibility Terms of Use Media Inquiries News www.BrevilleUSASupport.com Ask Us Remanufactured Sales Product Registration Return Policy Warranty 