Basics of Electricity | Sunelco Solar , Wind , Hydro Renewable Electric Power order catalog contact u Home About Us About Sunelco Who We Are Classroom Intro to Renewable Basics of Electricity Voltage Drop Tables System Planning System Planning By Sunelco Designing Renewable : Good Practices Solar Water Pumping Renewable Energy for Telecommunications Planning Guide and Product Catalog Incentives Installation Gallery Basics of Electricity jump to a section : direct current alternate current The definition of electricity be give as `` the flow of electron along a conductor '' . If you have ever come into physical contact with this flow of electron by touch some exposed wire or other expose electrical device you will note that you receive a shock . This shock be the result of electron use your body a a conductor . Typically , we prefer electricity to stay in a designate , approve conductor and to move in an orderly fashion to it point of use . In order for electron to flow the potential must be great at the source than at the load much like a water faucet and garden hose . We have to turn on the faucet and introduce water into the garden hose in order to get a flow of water out the other end . Likewise in electricity , we have to introduce electron into one end of a wire in order to get electricity out the other end of the wire . The volume and pressure of electricity introduce at one end will determine the amount of work that the electron can do at the other end . Since the term `` volume '' and `` pressure '' be already take by the water people , the electric people coin the term `` amperage '' and `` voltage '' to differentiate between water and electrical volume and pressure . Not surprisingly , amperage ( sometimes refer to as current ) be measure in Amps and voltage be measure in Volts . Given a high enough amperage and voltage , electricity can knock you off your foot just a surely a if you be squirt with a large volume of water at high pressure . There be many factor that affect the flow of electron along a conductor and a few of them be important to u in the design of our renewable energy system . One of the main consideration be know how much work can be do with a give amount of electricity . We have all hear the term Watts when apply to a light bulb , toaster , hair dryer , microwave oven or other appliance . Watts be the amount of power consume or amount of electrical work require to do a job . Watts be normally measure by the hour so that a 100 watt light bulb burn for 1 hour would consume 100 watt hour of electricity . To determine how much wattage a device will use we can multiply the amp time the volt and the resultant product will be the wattage . The formula AMPS X VOLTS = WATTS be very important to people who work with electricity . Conversely , Watts divide by Volts will equal Amps and Watts divide by Amps will equal Volts . How much for a lightbulb ? To give a definition of how this work , let use the 100 watt light bulb mention earlier a an example . If the 100 watt bulb be for use in a residential home application and the electricity come out of the fixture be know to be 120 volt then by dividing 100 watt by 120 volt we will arrive at the fact that our bulb draw .83 amp . For those country that use 230 volt electricity , the formula still work and the amperage consume would be calculate by dividing 100 watt by 230 volt ( answer ; .43 amp ) . Now let say the bulb be for use in a camper or RV that have a 12 volt battery system . We have to divide the 100 watt by 12 volt with the result that the bulb will now consume 8.3 amp of electricity . In all three of the above scenario the bulb consume 100 watt but the voltage and amperage vary in each case . To help u understand the concept a little well consider the dollar a equal to one watt . Which be more ; a dollar bill , 4 quarter , 10 dime , 20 nickles , or 100 penny ? They be all the same in value just a the 100 watt be the same amount of work or power consumption in each case . This bring u to different voltage and the advantage and disadvantage of each . A 12 volt electrical system be a very safe system in term of electrical shock because of the low potential for electrocution . 12 volt electricity just doesnt travel through the human body very well . On the other hand , it doesnt travel through a wire all that well either because the voltage ( pressure , remember ? ) be so low . At 240 volt , we have the extreme potential for electrocution because the voltage ( pressure ) be 20 time that of the 12 volt system but , give the same load ( appliance or fixture ) at the end of the circuit , at 240 volt we only have to move 1/20 the amperage to operate the load . To solve this problem wire manufacturer create wire in different thickness ( gauge ) so that we could choose the wire gauge that would carry the voltage and current most appropriate to our application . Because 12 volt electricity be so low in pressure , a large wire be require to get our electron to the point of use without creating a lot of heat ( waste ) along the way . By increasing the voltage wherever possible we can reduce the amount of amperage we have to push along the wire . Not only have we increase the pressure but we have reduce the volume when we raise the voltage . Therefore , we can use a small wire to carry the same wattage over a give distance if the voltage be keep high . The result of use a wire that be too small to carry the amperage expect of it be heat build up in the wire and loss of power at the other end . Some wire loss be normal but those in the know have establish acceptable amount of loss give in percent for the various voltage in common use today . Direct Current ( DC ) Solar module , some wind generator , hydrogen fuel cell and most micro-hydro generator create DC or Direct Current electricity . This be the type of electricity find in battery . The most typical DC current be 12 volt DC which be what we find in automobile battery . To keep thing simple let use the 12 volt battery a the building block for our educational system . Typically , but not always , solar module make DC electricity directly from sunlight . It be use to charge a battery and this store energy be hold in the battery for use late . This be very convenient because we dont always need electricity when the sun be shin . Several solar module can be wire in parallel to speed the rate at which a battery be charge . See the section title Basics of Electricity for more on this subject . If we have a 12 volt battery that be completely discharge it will have a terminal voltage of less than 11 volt when read with a volt meter . A fully charge 12 volt battery will have a terminal voltage of approximately 12.7 volt when at a full state of charge . However , to fully charge a 12 volt battery we must slowly raise the voltage of the battery to approximately 14.5 for a wet cell ( lead-acid ) battery or 14 volt for a sealed , maintenance free or gel cell battery . Once the battery terminal voltage have be bring up to 14 or 14.5 volt and hold there for a period of time we can say the battery have be fully charge . Once we stop charge the battery and allow the voltage of the battery to settle it will drop down to the 12.7 volt mention early . Because we have to raise the battery level to 14.5 and sometimes even high , most solar module , wind generator , fuel cell and micro-hydro system have a maximum output voltage of approximately 17 volt . This high voltage be require because heat from the sun , friction or other outside source can significantly reduce the peak output voltage of our system . By allowing a few extra volt output , we can be assure of have the require 14.5 volt require to completely charge the 12 volt battery . It be important to note here that a 12 volt battery be usually make up of six 2 volt cell wire in series to give u 12 volt . The size of the cell and consequently the size of the entire battery will usually determine the amount of electricity the battery can hold . The measure of battery capacity be the Amp Hour . A typical Marine/RV , deep cycle battery which be similar to an automotive starter battery will have around 80 amp hour of storage capacity . To charge our 12 volt battery ( bring it up to 14.5 volt ) requires that we provide some amperage to drive the voltage of the battery upward . For this reason our charging source ( solar , wind , fuel cell or hydro ) have to generate amperage a well a voltage . The more amperage it generate , the faster it will push the battery voltage to the 14.5 volt stage . As an example , let say that we have a solar panel capable of put out 5 amp in full sun and generate 17 volt . Using the manufacturer rat system , we can multiply the amp time the volt of the solar panel . Thus , 5 amp time 17 volt = 85 watt . If our 80 amp hour battery be 100 % dead ( 100 % depth of discharge ) we can assume that it will take the 85 watt solar module 16 hour of full sun to completely restore the deplete 80 amp hour ( 80 amp hour divide by 5 amp per hour ) . In reality because of battery inefficiency and other factor such a temperature and battery type it will take slightly longer . We typically use a 15 % inefficiency factor to estimate the recharge time for wet cell battery . This mean that we would have to provide 115 % of the amp hour ( 92 amp hour ) take from the battery to recharge it . So it would actually take 18.4 hour of full sun equivalent to completely recharge the dead battery with our 85 watt panel . If we choose to wire two 85 watt solar panel in parallel , we will now have 10 amp output with a maximum of 17 volt . Recharging of the 80 amp hour battery will be reduce to of the time it take with only one solar panel . We could take this discussion into 24 or 48 volt battery system or system which use 2 volt or 6 volt battery in series and at some point we hope to expand this site to include more information on those type of system . There be some excellent publication in our book department a well a in the Sunelco Planning Guide and Product Catalog that provide extensive information on battery and battery charge . We hope you will take the opportunity to add one or more of them to your library . Alternating Current The difference in AC current and DC current be that rather than be deliver up in a smooth , continuous flow like DC electricity , AC current be switch on and off at a high rate of speed usually 50 to 60 time per second . In order to do any work , electricity require at least two wire . In DC electricity we call these Positive ( + ) and Negative ( - ) but in AC electricity they be call Hot and Neutral . The 50 or 60 pulse per second ( call hertz or Hz ) of AC electricity be alternately send down the Hot and Neutral wire to the load . Since only one or the other of the wire be charge at any give moment this alternation of current come to be call Alternating Current or AC . Clever , huh ? If you have ever have an electrical shock from a wall socket , the vibrating effect be the result of the 60 Hz of 120 volt electricity travel through your body . If you follow the previous section on DC current you discover that you can store DC electricity in battery for use late . Unfortunately , AC power such a we be accustom to come out of our wall socket be not so easy to store . Small amount of AC electricity can be store in electronic device call capacitor but they be not practical for storing electricity for home use . Since most home appliance in North America be design to operate at 120 volt AC and not 12 volt DC we have to have some method of convert our stored renewable energy from 12 volt DC to 120 volt AC ( note the 1 to 10 ratio ) . In early time , we could connect a motor which operate off of 12 volt DC to a 120 volt generator and run the 12 volt motor off of our battery to produce 120 volt AC . This be all very good but very inefficient . Approximately 60 % of our energy be lose a we move from one electrical system to the other . Over the year since electricity have be in wide-spread use , other , more efficient device have come about to make this conversion more efficient . Transformers ( a metal core wound with wire ) and electronic circuitry or a combination of the two have pretty much replace the old fashion rotary inverter . Inverters today have an efficiency rate that can exceed 90 % ( less than 10 % of the power lose in conversion ) when properly size for the application . No discussion of AC electricity in relation to renewable energy be complete without mentioning that there be two basic type of inverter commonly in use today . The modified sine wave and the full sine wave inverter vary only slightly in their ability to run common household appliance . While the modified sine wave inverter be less expensive due to the simplicity of it design there be a few load such a digital clock , fluorescent light with magnetic ballast , ceiling fan , variable speed device and electronics which employ silicon control rectifier which do not perform well from a modified sine wave inverter . To operate these device at their full potential , an inverter with a full sine wave output be require . So whats the difference in the two ? If you be familiar with a device call an oscilloscope which let you look at electricity you will know that conventional electricity from the wall plug look like a regular series of ocean wave that be all identical . In a 60 Hz system such a we have here in North America , there be exactly 60 identical crest and 60 ident 