Is Your Smart Meter Spying On You ? Washington 's Blog Is Your Smart Meter Spying On You ? Skip to content Home Business / Economics Energy / Environment Politics / World News Science / Technology General Interest RSS Feed Overview For New Readers Is the Government Spying On You Through Your Own Computers Webcam Or Microphone ? 81.5 % of Money Created through Quantitative Easing Is Sitting There Gathering Dust Instead of Helping the Economy Is Your Smart Meter Spying On You ? Posted on June 25 , 2013 by WashingtonsBlog Preface : The original intent of smart meter may be good conserve energy by setting up a smart grid to maximize the efficiency of energy distribution . But there be question about potential health effect s from smart meter . And in this era of pervasive spying it important to know where the threat to our privacy be come from . Burglars , Hackers and the Government All Want to See Your Smart Meter Data NBC News report : Researchers examine the privacy implication of smart-meter technology find that one German provider device contain vulnerability that allow them to snoop on unencrypted data to determine whether or not the homeowner be home . After sign up with the German smart-meter firm Discovergy , the researcher detect that the company device transmit unencrypted data from the home device back to the company server over an insecure link . The researcher , Dario Carluccio and Stephan Brinkhaus , intercept the supposedly confidential and sensitive information , and , base on the fingerprint of power usage , be able to tell not only whether or not the homeowner be home , away or even sleep , but also what movie they be watch on TV . Network World point out : At the last Chaos Communication Congress in Germany , researcher present Smart Hacking For Privacy and demonstrate that detail smart meter data can show what TV show you watch , scan for copyright-protected DVD movie you watch , and other privacy intrusive detail . Network World also note : Smart meter provide highly detail energy-use data . The info can be use by police to find and to bust indoor pot farm , by insurance company to determine health care premium , and by criminal to determine if you own high-dollar appliance and when be the best time to steal them . And thats only the tip of the potential privacy invasion iceberg . *** In central Ohio , police file at least 60 subpoena each month for energy-use record of people suspect in indoor marijuana grow operation , report the Columbus Dispatch . Most of the house with indoor pot grow operation be reportedly in quiet neighborhood without much traffic . DEA agent Anthony Marotta say the subpoena be only one tool use to catch grow house operator . Police get a tip about suspicious activity , but if undercover officer dont discover anything illegal during a stake out , then utility consumption record can be seek . How else can I get an indicator to get probable cause if I cant see anything ? Marotta say to reporter Dean Narciso . *** The U.S. Department of Energy warn [ PDF ] that smart grid technology can provide a highly detail household profile of energy consumption and say policy be need to restrict utility from share consumer usage data with third party . The National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) outline Potential Privacy Impacts that Arise from the Collection and Use of Smart Grid Data [ PDF ] . From reading it , a person might wonder if smart meter will be real-time surveillance spy . It suggest that insurance company might use the smart meter data to determine health care premium , such a if there be high usage at night which would indicate sleep behavior problem . Besides look to bust pot farmer , law enforcement might use the data a real-time surveillance to determine if resident be present and current activity inside the home . The press might wish to see the smart meter data of celebrity . Criminals may want to see the data to determine the best time for a burglary and what high dollar appliance you might have to steal . Marketers might want the data for profile and target advertisement . Creditors might want the data to determine if behavior indicates creditworthiness . *** Lockheed Martin general manager of Energy and Cyber Services say the smart grid could include a many a 440 million new hackable point by the end of 2015 , report Computerworld . The New York Times writes : Writing in Fridays issue of the journal Science , the environmental scientist Jan Beyea foresee a world in which epidemiologist could harvest data on how people live from day to day their use of electric blanket or microwave oven , for example and correlate such activity with the likelihood of develop certain health condition . The meter data could serve a a check on information obtain from the questionnaire that be use in such study , he say . With data from thousand or million of smart meter , researcher could design tool to measure how many time a day a refrigerator door be open , relevant to dietary and obesity research , or sleep pattern , relevant to a wide range of health research , he write . National Geographic note : Its not hard to imagine a divorce lawyer subpoena this information , an insurance company interpret the data in a way that allow it to penalize customer , or criminal intercept the information to plan a burglary , the private nonprofit Electronic Frontier Foundation note in a blog post about smart meter . *** The European Unions data protection watchdog warn early this year that smart meter , while bring significant potential benefit , also could be use track whether family be away on holiday or at work , if someone us a specific medical device or a baby-monitor , how they like to spend their free time and so on . The European Data Protection Supervisor urge that member state provide the public with more information on how the data be be handle . *** The California Public Utilities Commission ( CPUC ) be involve in producing a comprehensive report on privacy with the National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) that summarize , often in chilling detail , the many way in which privacy breach could occur on the smart grid , and recommends best practice for prevent those breach . As Smart Grid implementation collect more granular , detailed , and potentially personal information , this information may reveal business activity , manufacturing procedure , and personal activity in a give location , the NIST report say . The San Francisco Chronicle report : Critics of smart meter have often warn that the advanced electricity and gas meter can invade privacy by revealing when someone be and isnt home . According to the American Civil Liberties Union , they have reason to worry . The civil right group on Wednesday report that Californias three big , investor-owned utility have disclose individual account information on thousand of their customer last year , usually to government agency arm with subpoena . Last year , the United States Congressional Research Service address some of the issue involve : Data record by smart meter must be highly detail , and , consequently , it may show what individual appliance a consumer be use . The data must also be transmit to electric utilitiesand possibly to third party outside of the smart gridsubjecting it to potential interception or theft a it travel over communication network and be store in a variety of physical location . These characteristic of smart meter data present privacy and security concern that be likely to become more prevalent a government-backed initiative expand deployment of the meter to million of home across the country . In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) , Congress appropriate fund for the implementation of the Smart Grid Investment Grant ( SGIG ) program administer by the Department of Energy . This program now permit the federal government to reimburse up to 50 % of eligible smart grid investment , which include the cost to electric utility of buy and instal smart meter . In it annual report on smart meter deployment , the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission cite statistic show that the SGIG program have help fund the deployment of about 7.2 million meter a of September 2011.15 At completion , the program will have partially fund the installation of 15.5 million meter . By 2015 , the Institute for Electric Efficiency expect that a total of 65 million smart meter will be in operation throughout the United States . The CRS discuss some of the law which may govern smart meter data : If smart meter data and transmission fall outside of the protection of the Fourth Amendment , they may still be protect from unauthorized disclosure or access under the Stored Communications Act ( SCA ) , the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act ( CFAA ) , and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act ( ECPA ) . These statute , however , would appear to permit law enforcement to access smart meter data for investigative purpose under procedure provide in the SCA , ECPA , and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) , subject to certain condition . Additionally , an electric utility privacy and security practice with regard to consumer data may be subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( FTC Act ) . The Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) have recently focus it consumer protection enforcement on entity that violate their privacy policy or fail to protect data from unauthorized access . This authority could apply to electric utility in possession of smart meter data , provide that the FTC have statutory jurisdiction over them . General federal privacy safeguard provide under the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 ( FPA ) protect smart meter data maintain by federal agency , include data hold by federally own electric utility . The CRS report note the incompleteness of the law apply to smart meter . And give that the FISA court have recently be shown to rubber-stamp mass surveillance on million of Americans without any protection be not sure that the current legal protection regard smart meter data be worth the paper theyre write on . England be just a bad . As the Telegraph writes : The device , which the government plan to install in every home by 2020 , will also tell energy firm what sort of appliance be be use , allowing company to target customer who do not reduce their energy consumption . Privacy campaigner have express horror at the proposal , which come as two million home have spy device fit to their rubbish bin by council who record how much resident be recycle . *** In it impact assessment , however , the Department for Energy and Climate Change ( DECC ) say there be theoretically scope for use the smart meter communication infrastructure to enable a variety of other service , such a monitor of vulnerable householder by health authority or social service department . It add : Information from smart meter could also make it possible for a supplier to determine when electricity or gas be be use in a property and , to a degree , the type of technology that be be use within the property . This could be use to target energy efficiency advice and offer of measure , social programme etc to householder . Doretta Cocks , founder of the Campaign for Weekly Waste Collection , say : This be Orwellian . Were already under surveillance for what we put outside the home in bin and now we could be watch for what be do inside a well . *** Guy Herbert , general secretary of NO2ID , say : Information from smart meter might be useful to energy provider and perhaps even their customer , but there no reason for any public authority to have access to it unless theyve a warrant to do so . This document be a prime example of government effort to shoehorn data share and feature creep into every new policy . *** The DECC document add household could even have their power to some appliance turn off remotely to help the national grid if there be too much demand . *** Consumer Focus , the watchdog , have also express concern about the privacy implication of the meter , say consumer be at risk of unfair , excessive , inequitable and inefficient charge because energy company could use the new data to introduce more complex tariff to maximise profit at peak time . And the Age report that smart meter data from Australian homeowner be share with random company : Detailed information about electricity customer power usage , which give insight into when a house be occupy , be be share with third party include mail house , debt collector , data process analyst and government agency . Customers with smart meter who sign up for Origin Energys online portal must consent to their data be share with a string of third party . The data be store in Australia but share with US company Tendril , which be describe by Origin a a smart energy technology provider . Australias privacy watchdog say the technology could threaten people privacy . We be start to see people voice concern about the level of data that these meter can collect , federal Privacy Commissioner Timothy Pilgrim say . *** Mr Pilgrim say electricity company have a legal responsibility to delete or de-identify personal information that be no longer need . However , an Origin spokesman say the company keep former customer data for retrospective query and tax and compliance purpose . The state government aim to install smart meter which log electricity use every half-hour in all Victorian home by the end of next year . *** Customer information can only be access by staff involve in billing . He say the electricity retailer only share information with third party when they have a legitimate business need to do so in order to meet our service obligation to our customer . In the ultimate irony , one of the big proponent of smart meter Northern Californias main utility , Pacific Gas & Electric be bust in April for spy on anti-smart meter group : On Thursday 4th April 2013 , the California Public Utilities Commission ( CPUC ) approve a settlement in it investigation into Pacific Gas and Electric Company ( PG & E ) for spy on anti-Smart Meter group . PG & E will be require to pay $ 390,000 to the state General Fund . This infiltration by PG & E be part of an on-going surveillance program conduct by PG & E and Edelman , a public relation firm PG & E hire in January of 2010 in response to escalating Smart Meter complaint and problem . As part of this program , the director of the PG & E Smart Meter program , William Ralph Devereaux , other PG & E employee and third party spy on group with the knowledge of senior PG & E staff . PG & E employee and senior management exchange email insult and demean the member of the anti-SmartMeter group . For example , these PG & E customer be refer to insurgent . PG & E coordinate move an entire Smart Meter deployment yard to derail a non-violent protest and sent an employee to surreptitiously observe and report on the reaction of the protestors , who also transmit picture of them to PG & E . This spy express his pleasure in observing and take photo of anti-SmartMeter activist . Note : Several utility include Pacific Gas & Electric allow you to opt out of the smart meter program . If you insist , they will remove the smart meter from your home . Share this : Facebook Twitter Google +1 Reddit StumbleUpon More Digg Pinterest Tumblr LinkedIn Print Email Pocket This entry be post in Energy / Environment , Politics / World News , Science / Technology . Bookmark the permalink . Is the Government Spying On You Through Your Own Computers Webcam Or Microphone ? 81.5 % of Money Created through Quantitative Easing Is Sitting There Gathering Dust Instead of Helping the Economy HS For certain , smart meter can be use to secretly gather personal data about customer . However , the real goal of the power company be to use the meter in conjunction with their monopoly status to force customer to pay a variable rate , to facilitate price gouge during period of high demand . Frank This be no secret . You have describe one of the main purpose of smart meter . That be , to get people to besmart and reduce their demand when possible during peak period of use so that we dont have to keep building more and more power plant . I dont need to run my dishwasher at 2:00 p.m. when use be high . I can run it when I go to bed when rate would be low . Americans dont give a damn about conservation unless it cost them money , so this be the incentive we need to pay attention . Frank This be no secret . You have describe one of the main purpose of smart meter . That be , to get people to besmart and reduce their demand when possible during peak period of use so that we dont have to keep building more and more power plant . I dont need to run my dishwasher at 2:00 p.m. when use be high . I can run it when I go to bed when rate would be low . Americans dont give a damn about conservation unless it cost them money , so this be the incentive we need to pay attention . Kropotkin I doubt it will be limit to something so trivial a when you run your dishwasher . Expect to pay more to use the same amount of electricity you always have accord to anything approach a normal sleep-wake cycle . If you want Americans to pay more for energy , why not just increase rate across the board rather than install new privacy-invading meter everywhere to provide a convenient justification for a similar policy ? The former approach would also incentivize net electricity usage to decrease rather than just peak hour use . gozounlimited Our straw man president be go on and on about how global warming be heat u up while avoid educating the people about geoengineering and how his secret program be destroy the planet . Do you have the courage to act Mr . President ? ..Do you have the courage to tell the truth ? You have condemn this planet Mr . Terrorist . You have relentlessly spray u with deadly chemical to prove your lie . Yes , air pollution be a problem . not CO2 . Now he express his need for a market base solution so we can be rob while be murdered.taken from the page of big pharma and big ag . Resolved to improve the air for our safety , the EPA be go to monitor emission , water , etc.. ( I think they be already do that ) . When be the EPA go to monitor chemtrails in our atmosphere ? The airborne poison ( chemtrails , weather mod . ) that be cause death and disease of all live thing be easily ignore by throwing out an economic smoke screen use to convince you your national interest be be serve . Frack , Frack , Frack yourself to death No scientific study done on the ton of methane release at fracking sites.but it mean Jobs . So the terrorist in chief be OK with lie to you if it mean jobsprofitable endeavor for corporation . not you . Your job be to die.. Geoff The rationale for smart meter be to charge people more for use peak power , that requirement doesnt need to be live it would be perfectly adequate for the time of usage to be on the customer electricity bill , in fact it would have to be anyway . A simple meter only be require , anything else be open to abuse . Jorge I recommend review one of C3 Energys pitches/presentations . By analyzing smart meter data , C3 Energy can determine what appliances/plug load youre use and when you use them through it algorithm of your meter data . The good news be C3 Energy can identify the most cost effective way for you to low your home energy bill ( on behalf of it utility client , who dont want to build more power plant ) . The bad news be absolute power corrupts absolutely . This data will be access by Fed Govt and hacker alike who dont necessarily have the best intention . Smart meter be just the start though . As smart appliance become prevalent , user ( a well a Fed Govt & hacker ) can determine when HVAC , light , plug load , etc . can turn on/off or become active/inactive . As cable/telco company become a player in smart home security , user ( a well a Fed Govt & hacker ) can determine when door lock & security system can turn on/off or become active/inactive . Thats a lot of power available for abuse a the smart era become the status quo . Kropotkin The smart component of these appliance be probably no match against a couple swing from a claw hammer . Hopefully the will not be integral to the normal functioning of the appliance . EconRecon101 The LINK to energy dept . warn in re privacy at http : //energy.gov/gc/documents/Broadband_Report_Data_Privacy_10_5.pdf DOES NOT WORK , but DOCUMENT CAN BE FOUND at http : //energy.gov/sites/prod/files/gcprod/documents/Broadband_Report_Data_Privacy_10_5.pdf Bob Gee , Ive find the site for paranoia satisfaction . where be the ad for tin hat ? Kropotkin Amazing that you still cant acknowledge the truth even when it be place right before you . Truth_and_Only_the_Truth This spy express his pleasure in observing and take photo of anti-SmartMeter activist . Bill Devereaux be now at ORACLE in charge of strategy One might be very intrigue to understand his Strategy : Spy & Infiltrate http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=aRmSAyVofr8 Ralph Smart It be all about Privacy , Security and Trust But Ralph a VP Strategy have develop a very own approach at get the needed Insight Your can get further detail on the internet , on google , on youtube . Really interesting , i.e . http : //www.youtube.com/all_comments ? v=aRmSAyVofr8 , http : //www.ca.allgov.com/news/controversies/pge-pays-390000-fine-for-trying-to-spy-on-smartmeter-critics-130408 ? news=849669 etc smart person A smart meter be a dead meter . When I take my family off the grid , the first thing I do when we leave our home be take a sledge hammer and bust the smart meter . Right on the wall . I leave it in piece , hang there for those asshole at the electric company . Of course their meter wasnt smart enough to tell who bust it up . So all they could do be lump it . Now we only use some solar power . The day of utility company have be over at our home for a long time . Thats the blessing of living far out in the country , back off the road . They get away with use technology to control our life because we keep participate in their game . I say to the people . Stop be fool . Give up the modern life and live like our ancestor do . If we all turn away from technology , itll fail . The corporation will crash . And the government will shrink . They need you and me to fuel their madness . So what be you go to do ? Be wise or be a fool ? Off the grid life be the ONLY true way of life . Its what the smart people do . Because they be smarter than meter . Braden Ooo ! Its the Yellow King ! Twitter Tip Jar Latest Popular QE Inventor : Its EASY to Create a Full-Blown Recovery , But Central Banks Chose to Make Banksters Rich Instead of Helping Main Street Asia Scholar Chalmers Johnson on Consequences of Empire How Did Syria Get Here ? Solutions Start with Innovation and Transparency US Considering Openly Arming Syrian al-Qaeda Faction , al-Nusra Teaching critical thinking to high school student : Economics research/presentation ( 6.2 of 6 ) PROOF that Putin Killed Russian Opposition Leader Nemtsov Obamas Biggest Lie About Obamacare Youre 55 Times More Likely to be Killed by a Police Officer than a Terrorist Getting Out Of Dodge Nobel Peace Prize Chief Quits , Asks Obama to Return Peace Prize 1/10th Joke How the West Got Hooked On Humanitarian War BLOOMBERG : Putin Is to Blame for Ukraine , But West Owes Ukraine Bailout TV ad air in Las Vegas ask drone pilot to refuse to fly Whats Americas Fragility Score ? Private Police : Mercenaries for the American Police State 2016 Election CIA Urged Rebels to Assassinate Their Own In Order to Create Martyrs Nations All Over the World CONFESS to Carrying Out False Flag Terrorism The Worlds Great Newspaper Reports on Ukraine Today Week Month All Facts All US Citizens Need to Know About Israel and Palestine ( 210,616 view ) West Coast of North America to Be Hit Hard by Fukushima Radiation ( 179,545 view ) Non-Muslims Carried Out More than 90 % of All Terrorist Attacks on U.S . Soil ( 175,826 view ) The Government Is Spying On Us Through Our Computers , Phones , Cars , Buses , Streetlights , At Airports And On The Street , Via Mobile Scanners And Drones , Through Our Smart Meters , And In Many Other Ways ( 151,346 view ) First Congress Member Allowed to Read Secret Treaty Says There Is No National Security Purpose In Keeping This Text Secret This Agreement Hands The Sovereignty of Our Country Over to Corporate Interests ( 113,733 view ) The Missiles That Brought Down TWA Flight 800 ( 104,189 view ) Dr. King familys civil trial verdict : US government assassinate Martin ( 103,770 view ) The SINGLE Most Important Step to Protect Yourself from Government Spying ( 90,791 view ) Scorecard : How Many Rights Have Americans REALLY Lost ? ( 83,789 view ) `` These Programs Were Never About Terrorism : They 're About Economic Spying , Social Control , and Diplomatic Manipulation . They 're About Power '' ( 78,385 view ) What Is The ACTUAL Risk for Pacific Coast Residents from Fukushima Radiation ? ( 77,535 view ) Indications that the U.S. Is Planning a Nuclear Attack Against Russia ( 71,976 view ) Americans Have Lost VIRTUALLY ALL of Our Constitutional Rights ( 61,010 view ) Reddit Censors Big Story About Government Manipulation and Disruption of the Internet ( 60,568 view ) The REAL Reason America Used Nuclear Weapons Against Japan ( It Was Not To End the War Or Save Lives ) ( 59,820 view ) Absolutely Every One - 15 Out of 15 - Bluefin Tuna Tested In California Waters Contaminated with Fukushima Radiation ( 53,227 view ) Top Financial Experts Say World War 3 Is Coming ... Unless We Stop It ( 52,136 view ) The 5-Minute Speech that Got Judge Napolitano Fired from Fox News ( 48,813 view ) Why Does n't the Government Use Its Mass Surveillance to Bust the Big Criminals ... the Banksters ? ( 43,746 view ) NSA Built Back Door In All Windows Software by 1999 ( 42,857 view ) Donate With Bitcoin Search for : Recent Comments Dominick Dickerson Meta-Study On Genetically Modified Food : Virtually All Independent Scientists Are Concerned Well I guess that 's the problem a those guideline be enact in 1970 by plant variety protection act . Since the intersection of private industry and land grant college seem to be your ken , ... 3/5/2015 11:23 pm Abba Okoro Why Jesus Was REALLY Killed : Challenging the Money Changers Cool , so that help your case ... how again ? 3/5/2015 11:09 pm anarchyst Youre 55 Times More Likely to be Killed by a Police Officer than a Terrorist There be much angst and consternation against prosecutor and grand jury who refuse to bring charge against police officer , even when incontrovertible evidence be present . Even with ... 3/5/2015 11:08 pm anarchyst Youre 55 Times More Likely to be Killed by a Police Officer than a Terrorist Here be `` police '' practice that deserve to be expose : # 1 . During a traffic stop , the police officer will touch the back of your car . The reason for this `` touch '' be that , quite often , the police ... 3/5/2015 11:08 pm Sleeping With the Devil : How U.S. and Saudi Backing of Al Qaeda Led to 9/11 great post thanks for your post ! ... 3/5/2015 10:59 pm Joshua Gaddis NATO Members Conduct False Flag Terror In Attempt to Whip Up War As Benjamin Franklin say , `` Government be a force , like fire , it be a dangerous servant and a fearsome master. `` The # 1 big killer of human throughout history worldwide be democide ( death by ... 3/5/2015 10:54 pm Dalton Media Blackout a U.S. Sponsors Genocide in Southeastern Ukraine You do realize it 's not Ukraine government that Started the war , right ? You do realize it be n't the Ukraine government that intend to `` take '' territory , right ? You do realize it be Ukraine that be ... 3/5/2015 10:44 pm Southernfink Meta-Study On Genetically Modified Food : Virtually All Independent Scientists Are Concerned The fear associate with GMO identify label that will see their product be reject by an inform public . The corporate fear of see their profit margin plummet , that 's all . 3/5/2015 10:19 pm Two Americas Meta-Study On Genetically Modified Food : Virtually All Independent Scientists Are Concerned As you know , the inadvisability of IPR be apply to food crop variety be the core of my argument . Yes , I know that non-GMO crop have be privatize , and I know that there be precedent . I ... 3/5/2015 10:18 pm Tim Zynski CIA Urged Rebels to Assassinate Their Own In Order to Create Martyrs You get ban because they be right and you be wrong `` and '' you seem to make sense and this could damage their righteous cause . Do n't worry , , THEY ARE not LISTENING TO YOU , they way THEY LISTENED ... 3/5/2015 10:15 pm 2007 - 2015 Washington 's Blog Proudly power by WordPress . Home > Business / Economics > The Worlds Great Newspaper Reports on Ukraine 