FPL | Ways to Save | Top Energy Saving Tips myFPL Account Ways to Save Customer Support For Business Search M myFPL Account Start , Stop , Move Start , Stop , Move Moving to a new place ? Start , stop or transfer your service here . Manage myFPL Account Manage myFPL Account Want to view or pay your bill ? Update account ? This be the spot . Report an Outage Report an Outage Lights out ? Let u know and well get them back on . Billing & Payment Options Billing & Payment Options Register myFPL Account Register myFPL Account Pay Bill Pay Bill Ways to Save Lower My Bill Lower My Bill Want to save ? Get tip and tool to make your bill even low . Understand My Usage Understand My Usage See how much energy youre use and discover new way to save . Understand My Bill Understand My Bill Everything you need to know about the rate and charge on your bill . Personalized Savings Plan Personalized Savings Plan Ask the Energy Expert Blog Ask the Energy Expert Blog Programs & Resources Programs & Resources Customer Support Helpful Links Helpful Links Look no further . Our top online resource be easy to find here . FAQs FAQs Questions from customer like you , answer all in one spot . Contact Us Contact Us Were here to help . Heres how you can reach u . Power Related Concerns Power Related Concerns Storm Center Storm Center Payment Assistance Payment Assistance For Business For Business For Business We can help your business save energy , money and more . Industry Resources Industry Resources Energy advice just for you . Plus , grow your business ? We can help . Billing & Payment Options Billing & Payment Options Make manage your bill easy with these option for your business . Start , Stop , Move Start , Stop , Move Storm Center Storm Center Save Energy & Money Save Energy & Money Submit Back To Lower My Bill Top Energy Saving Tips Here be some of the quick and most effective way to help you conserve energy , trim cost , and gain control over the energy usage in your home . You should post these tip in your home so that everyone can join in and save ! Limit the time you run your pool pump : Summer - six hour a day Winter - four hour a day Cool your home at 78 degree or warmer with the thermostat fan switch to auto . For additional saving , raise your thermostat to 82 degree or warmer when you 're away . Heat your home at 68 degree or cool with the thermostat fan switch to auto . To save even more , low your thermostat to 65 degree or cool at night or when you 're away from home . Reduce your water heater temperature from 140 degree to 120 degree , which be the recommend temperature setting accord to the U.S. Department of Energy , to save about $ 2 a month . Clean or replace the A/C filter regularly to help your unit run more efficiently and trim cool cost . Turn off your ceiling fan when you leave the room . A fan that run all the time cost up to $ 7 a month . Replace old , high-flow showerhead with water-efficient showerhead and save up to $ 80* a year . Adjust the water level on your washing machine to match the load size , especially when use hot water . Always use a cold rinse . Clean the lint filter in your dryer before every load to dry your clothes fast . Use the auto sensor function on your dryer to conserve energy by not over-drying your clothes . *Annual saving calculate base on two people in the home use water-efficient showerhead . Take the Showerhead Test Here 's an easy way to determine if your showerhead be water efficient . Take the showerhead test . Get a bucket and a watch/clock that count second . Place the bucket underneath the showerhead . Turn the shower on all the way use cold water . Time how long it take for one gallon of water to fall into the bucket . Check Your Timing If it take : Less than 24 second to fill a gallon of water , then you do not have the most efficient showerhead because it flow exceeds the recommend 2.5 gallon per minute . More than 24 second to fill a gallon of water , then you have an efficient showerhead . About FPL Company News Careers Environment Community Donate to Care To Share Rates and Your Bill About Energy Ensuring Reliability Clean Energy Smart Meters Power Disturbances Safety Partner Resources Suppliers Supplier Login PIC Login Building and Construction Real Estate Assist Agency Login WebTAXI Login En Espaol Programas de facturacin y pago Reporte interrupciones del servicio Centro de tormenta Informacin y consejos Folletos en Espaol Facebook Twitter YouTube FPL Blog RSS-Feeds A NextEra Energy Company Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Safety Policy Copyright 1996 - 2015 , Florida Power & Light Company . All right reserve . FPL.com be optimize for the follow browser and mobile operating system : IE 9+ , Firefox 31+ , Chrome 37+ , Safari 6.1+ , Apple iOS 7+ and Android 4+ . 