The Microwave : Why You Should Avoid It and Other Options - Keeper of the Home Keeper of the Home Naturally inspire live for homemaker Home About Meet Stephanie Meet the Contributors Meet the KOTH Team Compassion Contact Subscribe Privacy Policy & Disclosure Statement Advertise My Books Plan It , Dont Panic : A Complete Meal Planning Resource Real Food on a Real Budget Healthy Homemaking You Can Do It Too ! : 25 Homeschool Families Share their Stories Become an Affiliate Start Here Real Food Recipes Nutrition Kitchen Tutorials and Preserving Menu Planning Real Food and Traditional Nutrition Healthy Living Home Remedies Avoiding Toxins Pregnancy & Babies Healthy kid Herbs Baby Steps Cloth diapering PCOS Living healthy Homemade Natural Cleaning Homemade Skincare and Beauty Natural living Do it yourself Frugality Saving Money Keeping the Home Homemaking & Productivity Organic Gardening and Homesteading Getting organize Living Simply Sustainability Mothering Homeschooling Mothering and Encouragement Faith and encouragement Biblical womanhood Family life Blog Natural Living Guide The Microwave : Why You Should Avoid It and Other Options Written by Kate Tietje , Contributing Writer Back when I be in high school , I remember sit in French class one day . I dont remember what brought it up , but the teacher tell u that she didnt have a microwave . We be honestly shock . Why , we think ( and say ) . In this day and age , everyone have a microwave ! Its so convenient ! How do you cook without a microwave ? ! Why , indeed . I continue to happily use my oh-so-convenient microwave for several more year . That be , until I begin to move towards real food in 2009 . By the end of that year , I be convict that it need to go . And it do we put it away at the very end of 2009 ( replace it with my lovely Excalibur dehydrator ! ) and havent look back . Its be over two year , and I dont miss it . Are you curious why I do thatand how it work out ? Why Get Rid of the Microwave ? Microwaves be undeniably convenient if you want to reheat leftover , or defrost meat for dinner . But use them come with a price . The way that microwave work be by make use of an electromagnetic field . ( Hang on it get a little technical , but Ill try to keep it brief and understandable . My eye be glaze over a little a I be research all this , and I dont want that to happen to you ! ) Basically , there be a magnetron in each microwave , that creates an alternate current , acting on the electron in the food and cause them to become excite , increase their kinetic energy which create heat , cook the food . This process be basically radiation , where molecule gain or lose an electron through ionization . It doesnt sound like that big a deal , but it actually change the molecular structure of the food . This magnetron and the micro-waves it produce be so dangerous that all modern microwave have to have at least three safety measure in place so that if the door open , the microwave stop immediately . Being expose to micro-waves cause all sort of problem ( see below ) ! Standing close to the microwave be discourage , a be star directly at it , because microwave can sometimes be felt in the couple inch just outside the door . Anyone who have ever use a microwave know that food cook this way doesnt look or taste like food cook on the stove top or in a conventional oven . It burn more easily . Some thing become rubbery , sticky , or have other strange texture . It doesnt taste the same . The food can have hot spot and cold spot due to uneven heating . These be easy way to notice that microwave food be not the same a normal cooking , clearly ! And it be because of this ionization . Another problem with microwaving be the container in which most people microwave food plastic , or coat paper . These can contain BPA and other chemical that , when heat , leach into the food . We all know how harmful BPA be now ! ( If you havent hear , BPA be an endocrine disruptor that really mess up your hormone . ) Some expert have link microwave use to : Leukemia and other form of cancer Cataracts ( from look too closely/radiation escaping ) Irregular heartbeat/other heart issue Diabetes Nutrient loss/damage in food Anemia Higher cholesterol level ( which suggest damage to the body ) Source : 1 , 2 Okay , thats a little bit scary . And definitely enough to make me glad I havent use a microwave in over two year ! But what next ? Image by Katalicia1 But The Convenience ! Like I say , sure , microwave be convenient . Luckily , there be way to do all those thing you do with your microwave in other , safer way ! Toaster Oven If you want to cook or reheat a small amount of something , use a toaster oven . It heat like a regular oven , but since it tiny , it doesnt take a long to heat up ( nor will it make your house hot in the summer ) . Try use this to reheat food or bake small amount . Oven Your regular ol oven shouldnt be ignore , either ! I use mine all the time . We store most leftover in Pyrex glass container , so we simply remove the lid , pop it in the oven , and turn it on . ( Putting cold glass in a cold oven wont shock and break the glass . Though honestly Pyrex be really sturdy , and I have put freeze glass into a hot oven and not have a problem . Dont take my word on itbut Im say Ive done it . ) Stove Top Boiling water or reheat thing like soup go just fine on the stove top , and doesnt take much longer . Realistically , rather than have hot soup in one minute , you have it in 10 . So what ? Start it a few minute earlier and do the dish while you wait . : ) Hot Water Do you hate realize you havent defrost the meat and it 5PM ? Put it in a sinkful of hot water . Now , I know Only cool water , hot water be a breeding ground for bacteria . If you be only go to leave the meat for 10 or 15 minute until it mostly thaw , it will not have time to grow anything ( that cool water instruction be more for bath a frozen turkey for several hour ) . Though honestly I have occasionally forget about meat for a few hour and a long a I cook it , weve never get sick . ( Im badI break lot of food safety rule all the time . ) Honestly , I dont even have a toaster oven . I rely on my oven , stave top , and hot water to thaw or reheat anything I need and I dont miss my microwave at all . I enjoy the convenience of be able to pop a glass container of food directly into my oven , turn it on , and go take care of something else say , put my kid down for a nap . When I come back , it perfectly hot enough . In a microwave it would have heat , stop , and cool back down already , not to mention be strange in texture . Long stuff work well with my lifestyle than short stuff anyway . : ) Stephanies note : Our family also do not use a microwave and hasnt for about 5 year . We dont miss it . We heat food up in primarily the same ways as Kates family , although we do own a toaster oven and find it very handy for this purpose . What About Other Stuff ? The one use that I do admittedly miss be heat those rice-filled sock to use a heating pad . They arent consumable ( obviously ) so it not a dangerous use . If you have a microwave still , you can use it for that . Mine be inaccessible . Im tell you can heat these up in an oven on 350 for 5 10 minute ; just check it frequently so it doesnt burn . The same go for other convenience thing if it can be do in a microwave , it can be do in another way , too . Do you use a microwave ? Why or why not ? If not , how do you handle defrost or reheat ? Top image by cookipedia Disclosure : This post include affiliate link . About Kate Tietje Kate be a work-at-home mom to ( almost ) 4 kid -- Bekah , age 4.5 ; Daniel , age 3 ; Jacob , 1 ; and baby # 4 , due mid-March 2013 . She be marry to Ben , a wonderfully supportive husband ! She blog at Modern Alternative Mama , where she write about natural health , real food , parent , and all thing green . She also recently launch Modern Alternative Kitchen , a site about traditional cooking , and be about to launch Modern Alternative Pregnancy . In her free time , she enjoy sew , craft , cook , and playing with her child . Follow her on Facebook ! View all post by Kate Tietje Filed Under : In the kitchen , Living healthy , Nutrition Tagged With : alternative , cancer , dangerous , health , microwave , real food If you like this post , you might also enjoy Chicken Enchiladas and Salad in Thirty Minutes Flat An All-Natural , Homemade Oven Cleaner Serving My Family Real Food in Imperfect Situations Part 2 How to Become a Real Food , Natural Homemaker { Plus 2 Read Newer Post 10 Ingredients to Make From Scratch Read Older Post Spring Giveaway Week : Win a Large Gift Box from Healthy Surprise ( $ 79 ) Comments Riz say : August 3 , 2013 at 5:51 pm Hello there , Just a quick point : the reason why those argue over the science be waste their time be because when it come to unnatural , modern invention that even just sound bad , people would rather take precaution ; it all well and good that your educator havent yet widely prove microwave a deadly , but there an instinctive intuitive reason why people would disclose the possible danger and avoid it . Especially when a many have point out , it simply discourage take a proactive approach to cooking and nutrition . It be of course no coincidence that just about everything massproduced to facilitate this passive consumerist over-consumption lifestyle be at odds with a wholesome , sustainable lifestyle . This be not an academic conference , it be life , which be short , and precious . No offence to the academic though . All the best to everyone with their investigation , but there be only so much investigation one need to simply improve behaviour so a to avoid such item . In fact , do so be a good way to snap out of the endless bad habit that modern living have suck u into at the cost of our health , but to the benefit of the mass-producers , include the mass-producers of drug and medicine . Regards Riz AKMama say : July 10 , 2013 at 11:12 am We stop use our microwave when we transition to whole food and ditch the pre-packaged convenience food . It simply become obsolete . I have never miss it . Veatrice S. Bennett say : July 7 , 2013 at 12:16 pm I dont use my microwave to cook or reheat food . I understand that it will destroy enzyme need for digestion Nate say : April 9 , 2013 at 8:42 pm I dont know where youre get your information from , but a an electrical engineering student , I can tell you the science behind your argument be wrong . A microwave oven work by produce electromagnetic wave with a frequency of about 2.45 GHz . This electromagnetic wave interacts with polar molecule ( mainly water ) within the food . The polar molecule will rotate to attempt to align with the field , but since the the electromagnetic wave produce an alternate electric field , the atom be continually flip back an forth . In the process , these atom collide with other molecule in the food to disperse energy which increase the temperature of the food . Yes , microwave be technically radiation , but not the dangerous type that the average person would think of ( like the type emit from nuclear reaction that cause radiation poise and cancer ) . Electromagnetic wave include radar wave , microwave , infrared ( thermal ) wave , VISIBLE LIGHT , ultraviolet radiation , x-ray , and gamma ray . The biological damage radiation cause be correlate the energy the wave carry ( which be relate to the frequency of the wave ) . This be because if it have enough energy , it knock electron out of the orbit of the atom which ionize the atom cause to to react in undesirable way in the body . Microwaves be NOT ionize radiation ( only x-ray and gamma ray be consider ionize radiation ) they actually carry less energy than visible light . Not to burst your bubble or anything but there be also a significant amount of electromagnetic radiation in conventional oven too in the form of infrared ( thermal ) radiation which actually carry more energy than microwave ( though it still not consider ionize radiation ) . Also , the safety measure in place to keep the microwave from exit the enclosure be there , not because of dangerous ionizing radiation , but because you may recall that our body be mostly water , so you probably wouldnt enjoy be cook along with your food . Also uneven heat of the food be not cause by ionization , but rather by wave interference in the microwave and by difference absorbent/thermal property of the various part of food . Also real expert have find that even long term direct exposure to microwave be not link to cancer actually more carcinogen be produce by cooking with an oven ; in general , more of the food nutrient be lose use an oven too . Its true that food generally taste worse in the oven because of the nature of the heating process , but it not any more dangerous for your health , and I advise you do a little more research before try to scare people into throw out their microwave on the basis of false information . Lisa say : June 29 , 2013 at 9:23 am Food do not taste bad when cook in a conventional oven . It taste bad when cook in a microwave oven . Have you ever cook something in the microwave and eat it and cook the same thing in a conventional oven and eat it ? The taste be definitely not the same . Microwaved food doesnt taste good . Plus I think microwave be for lazy people and for those who like eat process packaged food instead of make their own so they know exactly what they be eat . David say : April 3 , 2013 at 7:34 pm Your whole article be base on ionisation and the chemical structure of the food change . Unfortunately you have the science completely incorrect . The microwave radiation be actually NON-ionising ( meaning it doesnt cause electron to be lose or gain ) . The radiation merely affect the magnetic dipole of polar molecule ( water for example ) and doesnt affect the structure in the slightest . This excitation of the molecule release IR radiation ( heat ) and heat the food . Microwave heating be actually safer and healthy than other method , a it be sterlising ( kill all bacteria in the food ) and there be less chance of burn the food and end up with free radical than in other cooking method . If you be go to advise people on give up a convenient and safe cooking method , you should at least base it on accurate science and not just big word . Shawn say : February 13 , 2013 at 10:16 am Kate , I appreciate your post on microwave . My family also want to get rid of ours , because ( 1 ) we heard that it wasnt healthy and ( 2 ) I like the aesthetic of a clean natural kitchen . However , Im skeptical by nature and I m always curious when everybody say something be bad without a ton of proof for it . So I want to see if this fear and panic over microwave oven be justify before deep- sixing ours in the name of health . In term of danger , I think there be no real evidence that microwave oven do anything harmful to food while heating up a another person post previously , but when cook or run at low to high power , microwave oven emit EMF radiation which be consider harmful . It be suspect that EMF pollution may nurture or grow many type of microbe that make human infection and disease more difficult to cure . So in order to test how much EMF my microwave oven produce , I buy a good Gauss meter and I measure the EMF when the microwave be turn off , and it be completely safe , no measurable EMF produce . However , when I turn the microwave on high for 45 second and place the Gauss meter on top of the oven , the needle ( a they say ) be way off the chart in measure EMF . But , and this be a big point , when I move the Gauss meter 2 inch away from the microwave oven , the measurement be half a strong a when on top of it , and when I further move just 5 inch away from the oven , the Gauss meter measure nearly zero EMF . So my conclusion be that most microwave oven ( ours be 8 year old ) be very well insulate from EMF pollution and so the hype over EMF pollution that Dr. Mercola and others warn against be just not evidence or apparent in term of modern microwave oven . Frankly , there be way more measurable EMF pollution when you talk on your cell phone . My Gauss meter show that when speak on an iPhone the EMF be equal to that of a microwave oven on high with a Gauss meter sit on top of the oven . A safe distance for EMF pollution when speak on an iPhone be about 8-10 inch away from your body . And a headset doesnt dissipate the EMF much either . So get rid of your cell phone be probably a safer health bet than dump your microwave oven . That say , there be again a certain clean aesthetic that I like in a kitchen that doesnt have a microwave oven , so if people get rid of their oven for that reason , I find it a more honest and truthful reason . But to think you be protect your family from dangerous EMF pollution by chucking your microwave oven be not verifiable and you and your reader should be aware of that fact . Thank you . Don Wisner say : January 25 , 2013 at 7:45 am I enjoy the article and agree with all of your comment . I think you should visit the website list above and learn about the Macrowave . Its really a great product . Its be feature on the DIY network the best of KBIS ( kitchen and bath show ) 2012 , a well a I Want That . You should check it out . Rafe say : January 22 , 2013 at 7:52 am We toss our microwave out about three year ago , and I dont miss it at all . We get rid of it because we want to distance ourselves from convenience food , like freeze meal and package food full of preservative . We hop by not have a microwave , we would be more likely to eat whole food and cook from scratch . It really do help ! Janna say : January 13 , 2013 at 5:16 pm Our microwave just stop work this weekend . I have try to convince the family to get rid of it early this year with no persuasion . So God move ! Beware to not preheat the oven to reheat food , our loss of a plate and a lesson learn . Scott say : December 4 , 2012 at 8:18 pm If research the necessary science give you a headache , then you probably shouldnt be report on the subject . That lead to ill-informed fallacy and misconception . Understand that microwave radiation ( oo scary word ! ) be LESS energetic than visible light . And if visible light isnt ionize your food , then neither be your microwave appliance . There be a difference between excitation and ionization , the latter be the strip of electron from host atom . Think of your microwave a simply vibrate the water in your food to heat it up . Joseph Ayeh Selevan say : November 26 , 2012 at 1:59 pm I have an aversion to microwave oven and all type of unusual radiation.I would like to be a member of an organization that advocate against the use of microwave oven and be subject to unusual radiation.Does such an organization exsist ? Would you know of any people interested in starting such an organization ? Yen say : November 10 , 2012 at 10:55 pm Microwaves be a form of NON-ionizing radiation , in the same class a radio wave and visible light . Linda say : October 5 , 2012 at 12:05 am I havent have a microwave in 10 year , more for the ruin flavor and texture and because I like my kitchen without a clutter of appliance . But to save energy and time I use a water kettle to heat the water before I start cook rice/pasta on the stovetop . The kettle also allow me to make coffee quickly in a french press pot , so I dont need any filter either ( save a little time , money and environment in one go ) . A regular bread toaster will also do for defrost slice of bread quickly too , but mostly it just about take thing out of the freezer in time . What I also do be to freeze the food in flat pack and portion size to begin with , they will defrost much faster and I can easily cook for one when I want to . I never really have a habit of reheat food , I eat it when I cook it , what be leave over be turn into something else the next day . Besides , the more time spent heating food the more the vitamin have time to break down . EngineertoMD say : July 20 , 2012 at 4:03 pm It be impossible that in the physical world we currently occupy that microwave can in any way , shape , or form ionize our food . Please , please , please everyone do your homework before swallow this hook . *Disclaimer , I do not own , nor endorse use microwave . But this kind of pseudo- science and the amount of re-posting from blog to blog to blog be just sad . Unfortunatly I think this tall tale can be trace back to Dr. Mercolas site . Anna say : June 18 , 2012 at 7:05 am I enjoy the post and the comment on this . I appreciate the civility of all involve , too . We have be without a microwave for almost 5 year . This be due to , mostly , space constraint , and generally we have not miss it . I do like to heat thing quickly somtimes and have find that use my colander over a small amount of boiling water with a lid on it do wonder . I place an oven proof bowl in the colander because it can tolerate the heat . Its like a micro steam table and since steam get hotter than boil water it heat up the food pretty quickly , without crisping thing like mashed potato . Jelli say : June 6 , 2012 at 5:29 pm We recently live a few month in Italy very happily without the microwave . Id be happy to see it go , but I think my husband would object . Growing up , my family didnt have one until I be around 14 year old , so I suppose I just get use to living without it . Plus , I really love a simple low-tech life . Jan say : May 21 , 2012 at 1:39 pm My microwave serf 3 main purpose . It hold up my shamrock plant . It be my kitchen timer and clock , and it be use to melt cheese on nacho . I can move the plant , buy a clock , and melt cheese in a double boiler , though it would be healthier to give up the nacho altogether . I like what one commenter say and may replace my mwave with a nice excaliber dehydrator . : ) spice say : April 17 , 2012 at 7:38 am We be without MW since feb/2011..before that also we didnt have it for almost 3 yr . but this time it gone for ever..well I grow up in a house without MW so it all seem possible.stove top & toaster oven do all my jobs.I do miss it while bake for heating/melting small amount of chocolate but thats about it.blogged about our life without MW here in this post . http : //spicebuds.blogspot.com/2011/05/back-to-basics-1-life-without-microwave.html Ronda say : April 1 , 2012 at 1:38 pm We move about 7 month ago to a new apartment . The landlord provide a microwave . It sit on the top shelf in our laundry room . We also have our own toaster oven , and it sit up there in the laundry room too . We just warm thing with the oven or stave because the toaster oven be take up too much room in our kitchen . Weve be microwave-less for a little over a year now , and weve never once wish we have it . Food taste so much well reheat on the stove top or in the oven ! Lisa say : March 28 , 2012 at 6:40 pm We havent use a microwave in year , and I be happy about it . I dont even think about it . Nearly everyone else think we be strange , but thats okay . : - ) I use my toaster oven and the stovetop for reheating item , and it be just fine . Good thing be worth the wait . : - ) bibliotecaria say : March 27 , 2012 at 11:32 am One of the method I find for heating thing up without the microwave that didnt require me to dirty another pot be the power of steam . A double boiler or just a pot with a metal strainer and the item to be warm inside the strainer be the setup . Get the water in the bottom pot to boil and let it sit for a little while . It warm up the content of the plate or bowl beautifully . chari say : March 26 , 2012 at 9:10 pm we havent use a microwave in almost 5 year a well . i still have our mostly a a clock in the kitchen and to warm my heat wrap for my back when i be pregnant . i be not tempt at all to use it for anything else because of all the reason you already list . i have find it really easy to live without one and i think food taste well the old fashion reheating way my recent post : a little bit of real life ( and my 37.5 week maternity pic ! ) Trish say : March 25 , 2012 at 8:43 pm When we move into our house , five year ago , we do not have the counter space for the microwave and the toaster oven and the toaster oven be much more love . Micro be demote to the top of the dryer in the laundry room . I think every grown up have to have one in the house . When people come over it would be move out of the way , until we just didnt set it back out . Eventually , it be donate and we havent miss it since ! Diane @ LongabergerLifestyle say : March 25 , 2012 at 6:01 pm We havent have our microwave in the kitchen for several years.its in the basement kitchen , for the very rare just in case . At one time I could cook a whole meal use the microwave . I finally decide that I dont like the texture of food , and many time food have be ruin by over-micowaving . Weve discover lot of way to reheat meal on the stove top and in the oven.and it really doesnt take longjust a little plan . The result be deeelish ! Jackie say : March 25 , 2012 at 1:33 pm I have never develop an appreciation for microwaving , even though most of my peer have have them since we be kid at home . When microwave popcorn first come out , I think it taste awful compare to make homemade . That popcorn cast a lot of doubt in my mind about the quality of microwave food . Maybe the popcorn have improve since then , but I still see no real advantage , other than potential convenience , and that be not enough motivation for me to want a microwave . When I be a young adult who didnt like to cook , the toaster oven get a lot of use , and it still do , only now Ive learn how to cook real food . Older Comments Trackbacks On Life Without a Microwave | Food Your Way say : June 28 , 2013 at 4:53 am [ ] Ive read a fair amount about the danger of microwave and at time have wonder if the very aggressive cancer that take my grandmother suddenly [ ] Simplifying for Fall : Clothes and Laundry Room { Day 1 } | Home Your Way say : August 20 , 2012 at 5:03 am [ ] also plan to move the microwave to the basement . Although Im not totally convince about the danger of microwave use , it on my radar , and be go to try living without it for two week . Im [ ] your email here Welcome ! I 'm Stephanie . Creator of Keeper of the Home . Lover of Jesus . Wife to Ryan . Mommy to four . Drinker of fair-trade coffee with maple syrup and raw cream . Organic gardener . Barefoot , flip-flop wearer . Creative cook and kitchen messer-upper . [ Read More ] Visit our wonderful sponsor Latest post Real Deals : This Weeks Sales and Discounts on Natural Products You Really Use Easy DIY Cuticle Cream Weekend Links What Happened When I Quit Coffee Real Deals : This Weeks Sales and Discounts on Natural Products You Really Use A Step-by-Step Guide to Creating Quick , Healthy Meals for Your Family Get our FREE ebook , Clean & Simple , with 12 green cleaning recipe when you subscribe by email ! Popular Posts Change a child life Recent Comments Another reader have this same question and Beth mention that she get the bottle at ... Rebecca on Real Deals : This Weeks Sales and Discounts on Natural Products You Really Use How much water do you use in your All Purpose Cleaning Spray ? I think ... Kim on Real Deals : This Weeks Sales and Discounts on Natural Products You Really Use I have n't give up coffee , but I have cut way back on it . I use ... Kelly H. on What Happened When I Quit Coffee Disclosure Some post include link to sponsor or affiliate , which give me a small percentage of the sale . You be not obligate to use these link when you make a purchase , but when you do so it help to support this site , so thank you ! Return to top of page 20122015 Keeper of the Home . All right reserve . Design by Joy @ Five J 's Design on the Genesis framework . 