Voltage Valet Information Center Warnings Information Center What 's the difference between a transformer and a solid state converter ? The important difference be how the device convert voltage . The household electricity our North American appliance use be deliver at 120VAC ( volt alternate current ) 60 Hz ( 60 cycles/second ) . When the electric current flow it rise from 0 volt to 120 volt back to 0 volt and then it fall to negative 120 volt and rise back to 0 volt . This rise and fall completes one cycle ( 1 Hz ) and be call a `` sine wave . '' To convert 240VAC to 120VAC , for example , a transformer reduces the height of the 240 volt sine wave in half , create a 120 volt sine wave that can be safely use by all type of 120VAC appliance , a solid state converter , however , chop the sine wave at it positive and negative 240 volt peak , reduce the power in half but create a chopped waveform that can ONLY be use by NON-ELECTRONIC heating appliance . Cycles : 50 Hz vs. 60 Hz North American 120 volt electricity be generate at 60 Hz Alternating Current ( AC ) . Most foreign 220240 volt electricity be generate at 50 Hz Alternating Current ( AC ) . This difference in cycle may cause the motor in your 60 Hz North American appliance to operate slightly slow when use on 50 Hz foreign electricity . As a rule of thumb , the appliance that be most affect by cycle difference be those with motor such a turntable , clock , kitchen appliance , medical equipment and power tool . They will run fast or slow than they should depend upon the cycle difference and may be damage in the long run a a result . As with any rule of thumb , however , there be many exception . The only way to be sure be to consult the appliance 's technical documentation or contact the manufacturer . Most modern electronic equipment , include battery charger , computer , printer , stereo , MP3 and CD player , VCR/DVD player , etc. , will not be affect by the difference in cycle . IMPORTANT NOTE : Transformers and solid state converter do not convert cycle . Polarized Plugs In North America many ungrounded appliance be require to have plug with one blade wider than the other . This type of plug be call a polarize plug . All Voltage Valet converter , adaptor plug and heavy duty transformer will accept polarize plug . IMPORTANT NOTE : You may find some country ( part of Central America , Japan , Mexico , etc . ) that use the North American-style plug without polarize outlet . The Voltage Valet A adaptor plug will allow your polarize appliance to operate in those location . Recesse 