inverter knowledge base 35 CALL US 1.888.417.8673 TOLL FREE M-F 7am-5pm PST CART | ORDER STATUS | REQUEST A BROCHURE Reduced pricing on Pure Sine Inverter Chargers Take a look at the new low price ! TECHNICAL SUPPORT Power Inverter FAQ Click Here for Power Inverter Manuals Check out our new Battery FAQ Section ! What type of power inverter do I need to power my HP D110 Inkjet printer ? One of our client ask u to supply them with a DC to AC power inverter to power an HP D110 inkjet printer in one of their police vehicle . We be able to do some testing on this unit in our building . We find that this printer require an AIMS Power pure sine inverter . We supply them with the AIMS 300 watt pure sine power inverter with dual ac outlet , which will allow them to plug their laptop in at the same time . This AIMS power inverter come with a cigarette lighter adaptor give them quick and easy access to run their HP D110 inkjet printer . Customers do have the flexibility of instal this pure sine power inverter elsewhere in the vehicle . This would most commonly be do by direct connecting to the vehicle battery . The printer will then be plug into the power inverter and place in the most convenient spot for use . How do I run my sump pump during a power outage ? You can use a power inverter to power your sump pump during a power outage . Sump pump vary in size . The most common that our customer call u to power be 1/3 horsepower sump pump , and 1/2 horsepower sump pump . The best option we have here at theinverterstore.com would be our inverter/charger with built in transfer switch . From our experience , 1/3 hp sump pump and below can be run with our AIMS Power 1500 watt power inverter with charger and built-in transfer switch . For high capacity pump like a 1/2 hp sump pump you should use AIMS Power 3000 watt power inverter with charger and built-in transfer switch . The sump pump be first connect to the power inverter . The inverter be connect to both your battery bank and city power . As an add benefit to this , the incoming AC power will charge and maintain the battery ( s ) for you . The sump pump be run off of AC power directly through the power inverter/charger . When AC power be lose the inverter will automatically transfer to the battery bank . An automatic sump pump back up system , like the one offer by theinverterstore.com , give the customer piece of mind . Back up sump pump system ensure that the pump will have constant power supply whether you be home or away . As you already know hurricane , tropical storm and other heavy rain can deliver a lot of water to your sump . Investing in an inverter/charger with transfer switch be well than repair a basement from flood damage during a hurricane or heavy storm . How do I keep my 1/3 horsepower sump pump run during a hurricane or tropical storm ? You can use a power inverter to make sure your sump pump keep work during a power outage . We recommend the AIMS Power 1500 watt power inverter/charger with built in transfer switch . Along with the inverter , you will need a battery bank to power the sump pump when the AC power be out . The size of your battery bank will depend on how much emergency backup power you want to provide your sump pump system . We recommend that you use deep cycle battery , which you can find on our site . Generally , 1 or 2 AGM seal lead acid 100 amp hour battery would be the minimum battery bank you would want to install . Keep in mind that a couple of extra battery could save your home from major damage during a storm , so do not be afraid to have more power than you think you need . You will be much more comfortable in a hurricane or storm know you have this extra power on standby . The inverter will need to be connect to the battery bank use # 4 AWG UL list cable . Theinverterstore.com recommends always use an inline fuse kit within 12 inch of the battery bank on the positive terminal . A fuse kit prevents a battery fire cause by a ground fault . When the AC power go out , this inverter/charger will automatically switch over to run off the battery . Eliminating the need to wake up in the middle of the night and start your noisy generator . Can I keep my 1/2 horsepower sump pump run during a tropical storm or hurricane ? You can use the AIMS 3000 watt inverter charger with built in transfer switch to power your sump pump during a power outage . Along with the inverter , you will need a battery bank to power the sump pump when the AC power be unavailable in an outage . The sump pump need backup power to keep your basement dry during a hurricane . The amount of emergency power you have available will depend on the size of your battery bank , a well a how often your sump pump cycle on and off . We recommend you use deep cycle marine battery to build your battery bank . Generally , 1 or 2 AGM seal lead acid 100 amp hour battery would be the minimum you would want to use . In term of backup power , you will never have too much power . In a big storm , like Hurricane Irene in 2011 , people be without power for many day in some heavily populate area . Having extra emergency backup power will prevent serious damage to your home during a hurricane or tropical storm . The inverter will need to be connect to the battery bank use 1/0 AWG UL list cable . Theinverterstore.com recommends always use a inline fuse kit within 12 inch of the battery bank on the positive terminal to prevent a battery fire cause by a ground fault . When the AC power go out , this inverter/charger will automatically switch over to run off the battery . Eliminating the need to wake up in the middle of the night and start your noisy generator . DC to AC Inverter FAQ Click below for answer to common question : 1 . What size of inverter do I need ? 2 . What be the difference between modified , pure sine wave inverter ? 3 . How do I hook up the inverter to my battery ( s ) ? 4 . What equipment can I use with an inverter ? 5 . How long can I run my equipment with battery and inverter ? 1 . What size ? An inverter need to supply two need - Peak or surge power , and the typical or usual power . Surge be the maximum power that the inverter can supply , usually for only a short time ( usually no longer than a second unless specify in the inverter specification ) . Some appliance , particularly those with electric motor , need a much high start up surge than they do when run . Pumps , compressor , air conditioner be the most common example-another common one be freezer and refrigerator ( compressor ) . You want to select an inverter with a continuous rating that will handle the surge rating of your appliance so you dont prematurely burn out the inverter . Dont rely on the inverter surge to start your equipment because inverter dont like to operate in their surge mode unless the manufacturer claim to have a long surge time than normal . Typical be what the inverter have to supply on a steady basis . This be the continuous rating . This be usually much low than the surge . For example , this would be what a refrigerator pull after the first few second it take for the motor to start up , or what it take to run the microwave - or what all load combine will total up to . ( see our note about appliance power and/or name tag rating at the end of this section ) . You can use the follow formula to determine the size : Volts * Amps = watt or Watts / Volts = amp 1250 Watt example : 1250 / 120 Vac = 10.41 amp ac ( typical number find on equipment ) or 1250 / 12 Vdc = 104.1 amp dc ( battery drain per hour ) Here be an example : First , you need to determine what item you need to power during a power failure and for how long . Here be a brief example ( watt requirement vary ) : Lights - About 200 watt Fridge - About 1000 watt Radio - About 50 watt Heater - About 1000 watt Total wattage need be 2250 watt . The fridge and heater have a start up power requirement so let 's allow 2x the continuous wattage for start up requirements . 2250 * 2 = 4500 watt Second , select an inverter . For this example , you will need a power inverter capable of handling 4500 watt . The continuous power requirement be actually 2250 but when size an inverter you have to plan for the start up so the inverter can handle it . Third , you need to decide how long you want to run 2250 watt . Let 's say you would like to power these item for an 8 hour period . Well this can be tricky because heater and fridge run intermittently . Let 's assume all of the appliance will run 40 % of the 8 hr period which be 3.2 hour of actual run time . We need to convert the ac watt to dc amp hour because that 's how battery be rat . To convert ac watt to dc amp per hour you divide the watt by the DC voltage ( usually 12v or 24volts ) . Let 's use 12volts since it be the most common . 2250 watt / 12 vdc = 187.50 dc amp per hour 187.50 be now your power requirement per hour You have now determine that 187.50 be your power requirement per hour and now you need to multiply that by total hour of run time which be 3.2 in our example . 187.50 dc amp per hour 3.2 hour = 600 dc amp Because you be use an inverter , you want to calculate the loss for converting the power which be usually around 5 % . ( 600 dc amp * 5 % ) + 600 dc amp = 630 dc amp per hour ( this be how much power you need in an 8 hour period run your appliance 40 % of the time ) Fourth , now that you know your total power requirement be 630 dc amp we can select a battery source . Most typical deep cycle battery be 6 volt or 12 volt . I will give you two example use each voltage . 12 volt battery example : If you select a 12 volt battery rat at 100 dc amp you will need 6 or 7 battery in parallel ( I will explain parallel vs. series late ) . 630 dc amp / 100 dc amp battery = 6.3 battery 6 volt battery example : If you select a 6 volt battery rat at 200 dc amp you will need 6 battery in series and parallel . 3.15 * 2 = 6.3 battery No , I do n't make a mistake . When you use 6 volt battery , you have to connect them in series to reach 12 volt . Then you connect each series pair of 6 volt in parallel to create your 12 volt battery bank . What be series and parallel you ask ? When you connect battery be parallel you be increase amp . When you connect battery in series you increase voltage . In the battery world , it be well to limit your parallel string . It be well for your power system . In this example , I would recommend use 6 volt battery because of the number of battery this example require . How do we charge these battery ? You will need a charger to charge the battery when you have access to city power . Most deep cycle battery need a `` smart '' charger so the charger do n't damage the battery . In this example , you will need at least a 40 amp charger if not big . The big the charger , the faster the charge . Make sure your charger be for 12 volt battery because the system we just identify be a 12 volt system . You will also need cable . For this example , a 4 AWT ( 0000 ) cable be require to handle 4500 watt of start up power . That be huge cable . You may also want to consider an inline fuse . A 500 amp for this example be perfect . To figure out the size of fuse you divide your ac watt ( start up ) by dc voltage . 4500 watt / 12 vdc = 375 amp You would need a 375 amp fuse or big . I recommend a 500 amp just incase you be to max out the 5000 watt inverter . This be just a brief example . There be many different way to set up your system . You can use solar panel , wind etc . top ... 2 . Difference between modified , pure sine wave inverter ? There be 3 major type of inverter - pure sine wave ( or `` true '' sine wave ) , modify sine wave ( actually a modified square wave ) , and square wave . Pure Sine Wave A pure sine wave be what you get from your local utility company and from some pure sine generator ( most generator be not pure sine ) . major advantage of a pure sine wave inverter be that all of the equipment which be sell on the market be design for a pure sine wave . This guarantee that the equipment will work to it full specification . Some appliance , such a motor and microwave oven will only produce full output with pure sine wave power . A few appliance , such a bread maker , light dimmer , and some battery charger require a pure sine wave to work at all . audio equipment , satellite system , and video equipment , will run properly use pure sine wave inverter . these be the most expensive of the inverter design and outperform all other type of inverter , regardless of use . Analog Pure Sine Wave The sine wave produce by an analog pure sine wave inverter , be very similar to that of the digital pure sine wave inverter . The key difference be that the analog switch cause noise or static on the ac wave . generally most appliance , motor , microwave , charger , and power tool will produce full power and not cause any buzzing or negative effect . these type of pure sine inverter be not recommend for medical equipment unless manufacturer approve . use this inverter for electric shaver and emergency flashlight , garage door opener , laser printer and large strobe use in photography Modified Sine Wave ( quasi-sine ) A modify sine wave inverter actually have a waveform more like a square wave , but with an extra step . A modified sine wave inverter will work fine with most equipment , although the efficiency or power of the equipment will be reduce with some . Motors , such a refrigerator motor , pump , fan etc will use more power from the inverter due to low efficiency . Most motor will use about 20 % more power . This be because a fair percentage of a modified sine wave be high frequency - that be , not 60 Hz - so the motor can not use it . Some fluorescent light will not operate quite a bright , and some may buzz or make annoying humming noise . Appliances with electronic timer and/or digital clock will often not operate correctly . Many appliance get their timing from the peak of the line power - basically , the modified sine have a flat top rather than a peak - this may cause the occasional double trigger . Because the modified sine wave be noisy and rough than a pure sine wave , clock and timer may run fast or not work at all . Items such a bread maker and light dimmer may not work at all - in many case appliance that use electronic temperature control will not control . The most common be on such thing a variable speed drill will only have two speed - on and off . most equipment will operate without any noticeable difference , and because the low cost , make this the most common inverter sell and generally the only type find at your local retailer . Square Wave Very few but the very cheapest inverter any more be square wave . A square wave inverter will run simple thing like tool with universal motor with no problem - but not much else . These be seldom see any more except in the very cheap or very old one . Of course we do n't sell these . Too cheap ! top ... 3 . How do I hook up my inverter to my battery ? You will need cable . A few of our model include cable . If you need a long cable , please see our cable section . click here to view diagram top ... 4 . What equipment can I use with an inverter ? Anything ! Ok ... almost anything . In general most equipment or device that you use at home or a commercial job can be use with an inverter but check with your equipment manufacturer . Audio Equipment Some top-of-the-line audio gear be protect by SCRs or Triacs . These device be instal to guard against power line spike , surge , and trash ( nasties which do n't happen on inverter system ) . However , they see the sharp corner on modified sine wave a trash and will sometimes commit electrical hara-kiri to prevent that nasty power from reach the delicate innards . Some be even smart enough to refuse to eat any of that ill-shaped power , and will not power up . The only sure cure for this ( other than more tolerant equipment ) be a digital or pure sine wave inverter . Computers Computers run happily on modify sine wave but well on pure sine . The first thing the computer do with the incoming AC power be to run it through an internal power supply . We 've have a few report of the power supply be just a bit noisier on modified sine , but no real problem . Running your prize family-heirloom computer off an inverter will not be a problem . What can be a problem be large start-up power surge . If your computer be run off the same household inverter a the water pump , power tool , and microwave , you 're go to have trouble . When a large motor , like a skill saw , be start , it will momentarily pull the AC system voltage way down . This can cause computer crash . The fix be a small , separate inverter that only run your computer system . It can be connect to the same household battery pack , and have a dedicate outlet or two . Ceiling Fans Most variable-speed ceiling fan will buzz on modify sine wave current . They work fine , but the noise be annoy . Invest in a pure sine . Radio Frequency Interference All inverter broadcast radio static when operate . Most of this interference be on the AM radio band . Do not plug your radio into the inverter and expect to listen to the ball game ; you 'll have to use a battery power radio and be some distance away from the inverter . This be occasionally a problem with TV interference when inexpensive TVs and small inexpensive inverter be use together . Distance help . Put the TV ( and the antenna ) at least 15 foot from the inverter . Twisting the inverter input cable may also limit their broadcast power ( strange a it sound , it work ) . Phantom Loads and Vampires A phantom load be n't something that lurks in your basement with a half-mask , but it 's close kin . Many modern appliance remain partially on when they appear to be turn off . That 's a phantom load . Any appliance that can be power up with a button on a remote control must remain partially on and listen to receive the `` on '' signal . Most TVs and audio gear these day be phantom load . Anything with a clockVCRs , coffee maker , microwave oven , or bedside radio-clocksuses a small amount of power all the time . Medical Equipment Customers frequently ask u about the use of inverter for medical equipment . Unless specifically note in the regulatory approval for the product , assume that no AIMS inverter have regulatory approval for use with medical device or life support equipment . If you use a AIMS Power Inc. inverter with a medical device it at your own risk . top ... 5 . How long can I run my equipment with my inverter ? Battery/Appliance Operating Times Worksheet To estimate how long your equipment will run and to help determine the size of battery you need , use the worksheet below . ( If you do n't get a calculation it be because you have too many watt or not enough battery amperage ) 1 . Enter the voltage of your battery or bank of battery . Battery Voltage 12 Volt 24 Volt 48 Volt Battery Type Voltage Amp Hours ( Estimate ) Group 27 12 90 Group 31 12 105 4 D 12 160 8 D 12 220 2 . Enter the total Amp/Hrs of the battery or bank of battery . Amp/Hrs 3 . Enter the combine Watt value of the appliance you plan to run from your battery . Watts Examples Watts 20 '' Color TV 100 Blender 300 Coffee Maker 1000 Circular Saw 1500 Computer System 200 Microwave Oven 800 Power Drill 400 Hair Dryer 1500 Just an example . Your product could be rat differently . 4 . Click the Calculate button to see the number of hour your configuration should run . hour ( s ) of operating time , approximate . Based on fully charge battery . top ... SEARCH All Power Inverters Modified Sine Power Inverters Pure Sine Inverters Power Inverter Chargers Solar Kits and Accessories Power Inverter Categories Industrial Grade Inverters 220 Volt 50hz Inverters Power Inverter Accessories Up to 30 % off Used Inverters Power Inverter Help About Us Contact Us Terms and Privacy Policy BLOG HOME Pure Sine Inverter Chargers Modified Sine Inverter Charger Solar Inverter Chargers Off Grid Solar System Kits Solar Panels Solar Racks Solar Charge Controllers 10AWG PV wire Federal Solar Credit Information Power Inverters By Watts Inverters by DC Voltage Power Inverters for Cars Industrial Grade Inverters Cables and Inline Fuses Batteries Accessories Chargers Transfer Switches Used Modified Sine Inverters Used Pure Sine Inverters Used Inverter Chargers Power Inverter FAQ Technical Support Articles Press Releases Testimonials 24 /48 Volt Inverters | Batteries | Chargers | Cables | Transfer Switches | Accessories | All Products About Us | Contact Us | Technical Support | Home | Testimonials FAQs | Corporate Accounts | Terms/Privacy Policy | Link to Us Inverter Store | Power Inverter Store | 12 volt inverter | Car power inverter | 2000 watt inverter | Pure sine wave inverter | DC to AC inverter | Sitemap 