Turn off light when you 're not use them - Efficient Homes Home About me Get in touch Basics Energy efficient home Energy saving fact Energy saving idea Energy saving benefit Energy saving plan Energy saving checklist Upgrades Window covering Window blind Sun tube Icynene insulation Infrared heat gun Heating duct insulation More Appliances Dehumidifiers Freezers Energy saving tool Dryers Refrigerator energy usage Efficient washer & dryer More Light LED light Outdoor LED light Recycling fluorescent bulb Fluorescent garage light Turn off light LED under cabinet light How fluorescent light work Energy efficient fluorescent light Heat Electric heater Most efficient Crawl space heater Coleman electric furnace Carrier furnace Electric heater rating More Cool Central AC unit AC problem Intertherm AC system Best AC temperature Air conditioner mister Window AC unit More Electricity Solar electricity Energy saving capacitor Leaving thing plug in The Kill-A-Watt meter How to save electricity Electricity price Green electricity Negawatts Hot water Electric shower head Electric hot water tank Point of use water heater Portable water heater Shower head valve FAQ Best air conditioner Best space heater Best new furnace Heating vent on outside wall Freezer in garage More Shop Room air conditioner Space heater Turn off light when youre not use them You be here : Home / Turn off light when youre not use them Has anyone ever tell you that you shouldnt turn off light if youll need to turn them on again within a few minute ? That it take more energy to turn the light back on than to leave it on ? I dont know where this idea come from , but it just isnt true . Whats the theory behind it ? People think there a power surge when you turn on a light , and that this surge use a much a fifteen minute of what the bulb normally use . So the misguide assumption be that it good to leave light on than to turn off light youll be need in the near future . To understand how this be a fallacy , let consider the lowly ( and soon to be obsolete ) incandescent light . A bright incandescent bulb burn 100 watt . Lets assume we turn the light on , then off , then on again , at interval one second apart . That mean that every other second , we would be use the equivalent of five minute of what that 100 watt bulb us . That 100 watt bulb us 100 watt per second ( 110 watt-seconds ) each second it be on . So if it be to burn five minute worth of extra electricity each time it be switch on , it would burn 100 watt , time 5 minute , time 60 second , in other word 30,000 watt-seconds , during the second when it be switch on . Since those 30,000 watt-seconds be all be burn in a single second , we cancel out the second and get the theoretical equivalent of 30,000 watt of power . And since watt = amp X volt , and we know volt be either 120 or 240 ( more or less ) , that would mean the circuit the bulb be run on would be 250 or 125 amp , respectively . Since most household circuit breaker be in the 5-15 amp range , we can see that if this fallacy be in fact true , people would be blow their circuit breaker every time they switch on a light ! QED . If I turn off light too often , will they wear out Screw-in sensor About $ 20 All right you say , but wont you wear bulb out if you turn off light too often ? Yes , you will wear a bulb out sooner . All you have to do be watch a 5-year-old switch a light on and off five time a second for a few minute , then watch the bulb burn out , to realize that frequent on-and-off action for a light bulb do indeed wear it out . But we be not talk about rapid on-and-off cycle . We be talk about a cycle that last a minute , five , or fifteen minute or more . You might like to know how much of a bulb life hour be use up each time it be turn on and off . Sorry I cant tell you havent be able to find a reliable answer to this . ( There be plenty of place where it recommend you switch the light off if youre go to be go more than 15 minute , but no data to back this up . ) What I can tell you be this : even if it turn out that you shorten a bulb life by one hour each time you turn off light , youll still save both energy and money if you turn off light whenever you leave a room , even if you plan to come back a minute late . Turning off incandescent light Lets look at the lowly incandescent again . I can buy one for about 25 cent . They last for about 1,000 hour and they burn 0.1 kilowatt hour ( kwh ) for each hour they be leave on . Lets assume each incandescent have 1,000 on-and-off cycle before it burn out , and let assume electricity cost u $ 0.10 per kwh , which mean it cost 1 cent to run that 100 watt bulb for one hour : Every time you turn a bulb off you be use 1/1000 of the $ 0.25 you pay for the bulb , or 0.05 of a cent Every time you turn a bulb off for 5 minute you be save 1/12 of $ 0.01 , or 0.16 of a cent So you be actually save more than three time as much by turning the light off for five minute , a you would by try to extend the bulb life by leaving it on . And my assumption about it use one hour worth of the bulb light to turn it on and off again just isnt true it be just to prove a point . An incandescent bulb convert about 90 % of it energy to heat . So when youre try to keep the house cool , turn it off will also help save on cooling cost . And dont forget that by leaving the light on , youve also remove another five minute from the life of the bulb , since the bulb be run during that time . Turning out LED house light As for turning off LED house light , we dont need to do the calculation because there actually be no extra wear and tear on an LED light bulb from turn it on and off . And dont be lull into complacency by the low power consumption of LED house light . While a replacement for a 100 watt incandescent bulb might only use 5 watt , if you forget youve leave it on , youll still be waste electricity . Not a much a with a 100-watt bulb , but there no point in spending money on more energy efficient technology and then abandon your energy save way ! Turning out compact fluorescent light Motion sensor plug convert any outlet into a motion sensitive plug , shuts off after 2-6 minute without motion About $ 17 Lets apply the same logic we apply to an incandescent bulb , to a CFL . For a compact fluorescent , turn the light off do actually cause a bit of wear and tear on the bulb . But the bulb last about eight time long than an incandescent bulb . Lets assume the same 1 hour shorten of the bulb life when you turn the light off . A typical CFL have a life of about 8,000 hour life . A CFL of 23 watt , available on the web for $ 3.95 , emits about the same amount of light a a 100 watt incandescent bulb . For electricity at $ 0.10 per kwh , it cost you 0.23 cent ( $ 0.0023 ) to run that bulb for one hour . Every time you turn a CFL off you be use 1/8000 of the $ 3.95 you pay for the bulb , or 0.05 of a cent Every time you turn a CFL off for 5 minute you be save 1/12 of $ 0.0023 , or 0.02 of a cent Here , the economics of leave the light on if youre gone for less than five minute seem to make more sense . Except for one thing : the one hour life shorten be make up . We just dont know how much of a bulb life be eat up by switching it on once . ( At least , I dont know , and Ive look around a fair bit ! ) And except for one other thing : distraction ! Distractions when you dont turn off light ? If you make it a habit to turn off light whenever you no longer need them , theyll stay off until you come back . You might think youre come back in two minute , or five or fifteen . But what if something come up ? What if a long phone call , a visit from a neighbor , or a quick run to the grocery store keep you away longer than the five minute you plan ? And what if you just plain forget about the light you leave on ? Then the five minute can become five hour ( for a bedroom or bathroom light , for example ) , or even five day for a light in a room you rarely visit such a the furnace room . Using motion or infrared sensor Leviton infrared occupancy sensor light switch , manual on , auto off About $ 41 If you just cant remembering to turn off light when you leave a room , you might consider installing a motion sensor plug ( for a floor or table lamp ) or a motion sensor light switch or ceiling light adapter . These device work as follow : You can turn on the light from the switch , or have it go on when motion or the heat of a human body be detect . A Manual-On device be only activate when you flick the switch ; a Sensor-On device can also be activate by motion or heat . A few minute after the device stop detect movement or body heat , the power to the light be shut off . The sensor in these device do consume a small amount of power , but far less than youll consume if you keep forget to turn off light ! See the motion or infrared sensor light bulb connection , switch , and plug-in device feature on this page they be all available through Amazon.com . Retrofitting exist switch Lights Out Auto Switch About $ 20 For those who want a motion sensor light switch but arent electrically incline , you can install a special sensor panel over top of a standard light switch that will turn the switch off after a set period of inactivity . This switch mount easily with just a screw driver . It require three AA battery , and can be set to turn off after 1 , 5 , 15 , or 30 minute of inactivity . Once youve set it up , it monitor motion in the room , and shuts the light switch off when there be no motion during the timer period . This be a great way to save money if someone in your house be prone to forgetting to turn off a light , especially one thats in an out-of-the-way room where the light might otherwise get leave on for hour at a time . Turn off light make it your philosophy Make it your philosophy to turn off light . Not only will you save electricity when you turn off light , and save money overall , but it will remind you to be an energy saver in other way . And youll be set a visible example to others , who will become more conservation conscious a well . Once youve get into the habit of turn off light ( and convince others in your household to do the same ) dont forget to put some of the saving into add more energy save lightbulb to your home CFLs , dimmable CFLs , LEDs , fluorescent tube light . 0 reply Leave a Reply Want to join the discussion ? Feel free to contribute ! Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be publish . Required field be mark * Name * Email * Website Comment You can use basic HTML tag such a < b > , < i > , < p > and so on . Posts contain < a > or `` href= '' be not allow . Recent Comments Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Crawl space heater Christine on Crawl space heater Green Energy Efficient Homes Inc. 2014 . Privacy policy | Disclaimer . 