Energeno News : How I reduce my electricity bill by 60 % Energeno News Wattson Solar Plus be the only wireless portable energy monitor show both electricity generate and use in the home . Home About u Wattson Holmes Case Studies News Support Categories 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Case Studies Company news Distributor news e-coverage International Press Product review Wattson PV Sales Kits | Main | Overview of Solar Power UK by the BPVA October 26 , 2012 How I reduce my electricity bill by 60 % Source : Low Carbon Living Blog , post 6th June 2012 In the 12 month from April 2011 through to the end of March 2012 Ive manage to reduce my electricity consumption by over 60 % . I be pretty astonish by how much Id save and I put the majority of it down to a little gadget call Wattson . Wattson ( Watts-On ! ) be a wireless portable energy monitor which show you the electricity you be use in your home in real-time . I use what be know a the Wattson Classic ( see detail here ) for the first 10 month before upgrade to the Wattson Solar Plu s soon after I have my solar panel fit . There be a number of energy monitor ( or smart meter a they sometimes call ) on the market , however , what draw me to the Wattson be it design . Im a sucker for good design , particularly on gadget which be probably why my office look like an Apple Store ! Thankfully with the Wattson it not a case of style over substance a the monitor can show me the follow in real-time : Total energy be use in my house in kWh , actual cost and CO2 emission . Total energy either be use or generate in the house again it can be show in kWh , actual cost and CO2 be generate . Total solar energy be produce shown in kWh , return from FITs and CO2 be save . Total solar energy that have be generate Again it can be show in the previous way The Wattson Solar Plus emit a colour glow which immediately let you know how much electricity be be use or produce . Additionally the Wattson emit a colour glow depend on your energy usage . If Im producing more energy than I be use it glow green . It also learn how much energy I use when Im not generate . A blue glow let me know Im use less than my average amount of energy , a purple glow tell me Im use my average amount of energy whilst a red glow let me know Imburning way more than usual . ( quick turn off those light ! ) It also feature a night mode ( colour only ) and a clock . Anyway , enough of the technical jargon , let me tell you how the Wattson have completely change the way we a a family consume our electricity . In the early day before we get the solar array it really help by showing the amount of energy each appliance be use . ( I still cant quite get over how much energy be need to boil a kettle ! ) In particular it show the actual cost of energy for all the item on stand by ( through a process of elimination , i.e . turn thing off ! ) You can program Wattson ( through Holmes software ) with the actual cost you pay for your electricity , this show me that have my TV , Sky Box , Amplifier and Blu-ray player on standby be cost me around 60 per year ! Cue a Standby savasocket which cost 20 ( see here ) and this be reduce to around 10 ( I still keep the Sky Box switch on . ) The best bit be it be all control from my all in one remote control . One click of the off button do it all for me . Oh , Oh.. Im use 609 watt of electricity here and it glowing purple cue a panic round the house to see whats be leave on ! ! The other thing that be use lot of energy be the oven . Id always assume that a microwave would be more energy intensive than an oven but I be very wrong . If we can we now use themicrowave in place of the oven and I think it save u hundreds of pound . I now have low energy bulb in every socket in the house now and I can clearly see the saving on this via Wattson.Now most of these saving have be make prior to my Solar PV installation . Combining the solar array with the Wattson allow me to get maximum efficiency out of the array . At any time I can see EXACTLY how much energy be be produce from the array , and a soon a Im in negative territory ( i.e . generate more than Im using ) it be the time to switch on any electrical item I might need . If it a few hundred watt be generate Ill make sure that any electrical device that need charge ( laptop , phone , iPads , batteries etc . ) can all be charge for free . If the sun go in you know immediately via Wattson and you can just switch it off . You can read more about my solar array here . In this photo through my solar array Im feeding 2.8 kWh back into the grid . Time to do the washing , iron , vacuum , cook This really come into it own on a sunny day when I can be over generate by 3 or 4 kWh , a soon a we get anywhere near this it on with the wash machine , dishwasher , vacuum cleaner ( these three device be probably the high user of electricity in our household how do I know ? Wattson of course ! ) If weve done a lot of washing and the washing line be full outside we can also use the tumble drier use 100 % renewable energy at zero cost to ourselves . This be only use in extreme case though.Anyway , enough of the Wattson , I must add I dont work for them and dont have any share in the company in case you be wonder ! It be just a great product that Im really passionate about . Probably the main breakthrough Wattson provide in my house be get the rest of the family interest in saving energy . My partner have literally become obsess with it which be great and although my daughter be only 4 even she be begin to take an interest in it . As well a watt and kWh Wattson show you exactly how much your electricity would cost you for a year at any one time 285 in this picture What Wattson do be allow u to control the energy we use in our home and it visual impact positively encourage you to look at it . I firmly believe that this type of product will have a significant impact on not only reduce the CO2 we all burn in our household but , a Ive prove , you can save yourself some serious money into the bargain . Ill dig out my last electricity bill soon which show the energy reduction make in the same quarter the previous year . My Electricity Bill showing my usage now and for the same period last year ! ! ( Note it be base on actual , not estimate reading ! ) Posted by Energeno at 16:46:18 in 2012 , e-coverage TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry : http : //www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8357b075569e2017ee4776442970d Listed below be link to weblogs that reference How I reduce my electricity bill by 60 % : Comments You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the comment fee for this post . Verify your Comment Previewing your Comment Posted by : | This be only a preview . Your comment have not yet be post . Your comment could not be post . Error type : Your comment have be post . Post another comment The letter and number you enter do not match the image . Please try again . As a final step before post your comment , enter the letter and number you see in the image below . This prevents automate program from post comment . Having trouble reading this image ? View an alternate . Post a comment If you have a Typepad account , please Sign In You be currently sign in a ( nobody ) . Sign Out ( URLs automatically link . ) Your Information ( Name and email address be require . Email address will not be display with the comment . ) Name be require to post a comment Please enter a valid email address Invalid URL Name : Email address : URL : Comment: 