Can you really save money by switching off the light ? | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Can you really save money by switching off the light ? By This Is Money , Ask The Experts Updated : 20:57 EST , 15 November 2011 31 View comment Urban myth : Is it really cheap to leave your light on rather than switch it off and on again ? Can you really save money by switching off the light ? I 've heard that you use more energy by switching them off and then on again , than you do by leave them on ? A home energy expert , from not-for-profit energy group Ebico , reply : The short answer be that you do n't use up more energy turn light on and off . It be an urban myth that the extra electricity need to switch light back on be more than that save by switching them off but this be not the case . Although normal incandescent light bulb be be phased-out in favour of Compact Florescent Lamps ( CFLs ) , there be many still out there in use . These bulb do not use more electricity to turn on than to run them , so you will always be use less energy by switching these light bulb off when you dont need them . CFLs ( which use the same technology a the fluorescent tube in strip light ) require a small amount of extra electricity to light-up but only about the same amount a it take to run them for a minute or two . As a result , you will still use less electricity overall if you switch CFL light off once youre finish with them . There be number of positive to switch from incandescent bulb to CFLs . They generally last several time a long a incandescent bulb ( be sure to check packaging for detail on this ) and operate on low wattage to achieve an equivalent brightness . More ... Should you switch energy supplier ? Compare price In order to find an equivalent CFL to your incandescent bulb , divide the wattage of the old bulb by four to find a CFL with the equivalent brightness . For example , a 15-watt CFL bulb will give a much light a a 60-watt incandescent bulb . When purchase CFLs it important to check the Colour Temperature of these . Many older CFLs produce quite a harsh blue-white fluorescent tube colour light . These have a Colour Temperature of 5000K . For light closer to that given-out by an incandescent bulb , look for CFLs with Colour Temperatures nearer the 3000K mark . As lighting account for around 15 per cent of home electricity usage , turn off your light can play a part in reducing your energy use . By swapping all your exist standard light bulb for new energy save alternative , you could be save around 55 per year . Home Energy Expert be a free energy advice service from Ebico , the UKs only not-for-profit energy company and National Energy Action , the UKs lead fuel poverty charity , commit to improving the quality of life of low income household and campaign for warm home . Home Energy Expert have team up with This be Money to answer any burning question about energy in your home . If you want to improve your energy efficiency and save money then email your question with Home Energy Expert in the subject line to : editor @ thisismoney.co.uk For more information click on to : www.ebico.org.uk Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 31 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . MARKET DATA FTSE 100 Diary RNS Sectors A to Z Gilts Top mover Indices Funds Director deal Shares Gold / oil New issue Brokers Charting News Forex Heatmaps Share alert News alert All market data DEALS AND OFFERS 12.50 share deal Dividend reinvestment just 0.5 % Buy discount fund Check out our fund supermarket Free investment brochure Useful info by post or email Annuity rate Best buy and calculator Latest report from News Bank of England face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe Engineering the future : QinetiQ set for growth push under new chief Virgin Money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double Employees on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group Savers ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year Osborne hail 'major victory ' over Europe a Britain win landmark legal battle to protect Square Mile Bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place Legal & General profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt ITV dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the Downton Abbey broadcaster Bank of England chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say Mark Carney World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the chart again - and London do n't even make top ten Morrisons treasurer Paul Coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading MORE HEADLINES 30 SEC GUIDES We look at the big accountancy firm and the lack of competition in the market The Big Four Find out more VIEWS , TIPS & SPECIAL REPORTS ALEX BRUMMER Why politician and mortgage provider need to help out Generation Rent now Healthcare go hi-tech Smart gadget to revolutionise pharma in the hunt for cure MIDAS SHARE TIPS : Lights , camera ... and more action for Cineworld a 2015 begin well for the movie industry SIMON WATKINS Britain be now enjoy a good recovery , but keep bubbly on ice HOT TOPICS AND PREDICTIONS What next for interest rate ? Forward guidance have be rejigged but when will base rate rise ? What next for mortgage rate ? Should you fix or track ? And which be the best deal ? What next for house price ? The property market be on the up fuel by cheap mortgage and taxpayer help LATEST MARKET DATA Tables : Popular share Tables : Risers and faller Share data : Company A to Z Latest : Broker view and share tip Hot stock : Banks Latest from Markets Massive money print programme unleash by European Central Bank in bid to breath life into eurozone 's ail economy Boost for Aviva shareholder a insurance giant raise dividend by 30 % ahead of Friends Life takeover World Cup and Commonwealth Games fail to help power giant Aggreko weather the impact of a strong pound Admiral bos say number one worry revolves around 'irrational competitor ' a firm post 4 % fall in profit for 2014 MARKET REPORT : Rumours abound of cash-rich US private equity group offer for Weir Group London Stock Exchange bos predict flurry of market activity a European economy move into a 'sweet spot' FTSE CLOSE : Footsie hit fresh closing record at 6961.14 a ECB announces imminent launch of QE Acquisition cost , slowdown in military and security spending blast 81 % off annual profit for defence engineer Cobham Aviva use profit rise to boost dividend but insurer warns on work to do before firm be back to full health London Stock Exchange bos eye up fresh wave of new market listing after best year for float in 2014 for seven year Profits at car insurer Admiral fall for first time since 2004 but chief executive boast 'we still make a lot of money' Virgin Money staff celebrate second bonus in a year a bank share out soar profit MORE HEADLINES SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve 