Manufactured Home Furnaces home login become a member We speak HVAC so you do n't have to CONNECT with u ! facebook twitter email google+ our tool and detail report can help you choose the best furnace , boiler , heat pump or central air conditioner . Toggle navigation Home A/C Furnace More air conditioner boiler furnace heat pump filter member Resources : Top 10 Furnaces : 2014 How to Buy a Furnace Furnace Pricing 2013 Furnace Price Guide Furnace Ratings Which Filter Should I Buy ? How to Choose a Contractor How to Size a Furnace Consumer-Direct Buying Furnace Reviews All Furnace Resources Furnace Brands Amana American Standard Bryant Carrier Goodman Heil Lennox Rheem Trane York All 103 Brands Manufactured Home Furnaces Manufactured home be build at a manufacturer 's production headquarters and transport to the homeowner 's building site . Furnaces design for mobile home function differently than those design for traditionally construct house . Your heating and cool system should suit your manufacture home 's size and type . Because of small air duct and tighter corner , force air do n't flow a freely in a mobile home a in a large house . That mean that buyer need to ensure that the fan blower be design to suit their specific unit . We use the term `` manufacture home '' and `` mobile home '' interchangeably . While this be technically not accurate ( mobile home be factory-built dwelling produce before the 1976 HUD code enactment ) it match both term ' common usage . Brands of Furnaces Built for Mobile Homes Many of the same manufacturer that make furnace for traditional home also sell model for mobile home . Some brand that be available include : Axeman Anderson Bryant Coleman Evcon Intertherm Miller Nordyne Ratings When shop for manufacture home furnace remember that standard home furnace use different rating system that be not relevant to a manufacture dwell . Mobile home furnace need to be ducted , vent , and instal differently than furnace for site-built home . The ducting system in a mobile home be much smaller than in a site-built home . Mobile home furnace use a venting system call `` seal combustion '' . Standard home furnace do not take these difference into consideration and can be dangerous in a mobile home . Energy Efficiency and Air Quality For the sake of energy efficiency , the furnace 's incoming vent should be place where they will be able to function most effectively . For example , in a cold climate , heat duct work best when place around the external wall . The heating and cool unit must be build with sealed combustion to draw in outside air without release pollute fume inside . Intake and exhaust vent must be seal to prevent air from escape . The air come in through outlet place in the floor , outside wall , or ceiling . Climate Do n't waste resource and money by opting for heating and cool system that work too hard or not hard enough to keep a pleasant atmosphere . If you live in a more extreme climate and purchase a system that be too small and must work overtime , you 'll waste energy and money . It 's important to have your manufacture home size before choosing a heating system . For more information about mobile home furnace , log on to the Consumers ' Union website . 