Consumer Energy Center - Central Heating Ventilation and Air-Conditioning ( HVAC ) Systems CA.gov | Contact Us | Translate / Traducir Google Translate Disclaimer This link to the Google Translate web application be provide for the convenience of our website visitor and be for informational purpose only . The California Energy Commission do not guarantee the accuracy or timeliness of any translation produce by the Google Translate automate web application and be not liable for any inaccurate information result from the use of the Google Translate . The California Energy Commission do not endorse the use of Google Translate ; other translation service may be available to translate the information on our site . Please refer to the Energy Commission 's website Conditions of Use . For more information about Google Translate , please visit : http : //translate.google.com/about/intl/en_ALL/ . Please consult a translator for accuracy if you be rely on the translation or be use this site for official business . Select a language below : Click to close this disclaimer and return to web page . Statewide search : Search this site : This Site California HOME RESIDENTIAL Appliances Construction Consumer Tips to Save Energy Heating and Cooling Inside Your Home Lighting Outside Your Home Cool Roofs Tighten Up Your Home ! Windows Your Energy Bill BUSINESS Energy Bills Green Buildings Lighting Schools Consumer Tips Cool Roofs RENEWABLE ENERGY GoSolarCalifornia.org Biomass Fuel Cells Geothermal Hydro-electric Solar Solar Thermal Wind TRANSPORTATION Alternative Fuel Vehicles Hybrid Vehicles Fleet Manager Information Buying a Car Incentives People Power Telecommuting Urban Options CONSUMER TIPS Winter Tips Getting Your Home Ready for Winter If the Lights Go Out in Winter Summer Tips Getting Your Home Ready for Summer If the Lights Go Out in Summer Energy Tips for Your Vehicle Heating and Cooling Ceiling Fans Central HVAC Ducts and Vents Evaporative Coolers Fireplaces and Wood Burning Stoves Firewood Geothermal Heat Pumps Thermostats Radiant Heating Wholehouse Fans Window AC Consumer Tips Central Heating Ventilation and Air-Conditioning ( HVAC ) Systems First thing first . What do HVAC mean ? While the Energy Center usually try to avoid the use of acronym , HVAC be in common use in the heating and cool industry . It stand for `` heating , ventilation and air condition , '' three function often combine into one system in today 's modern home and building . Warmed or cool or dehumidify air flow through a series of tube - call duct - to be distribute to all the room of your house . A central HVAC system be the most quiet and convenient way to cool an entire home . Unless you live in an amazingly temperate climate , the HVAC system in your home us more energy and drain more energy dollar than any other system in your home . Typically , 44 percent of your utility bill go for heating and cool . Like many other appliance , HVAC system have improve in energy efficiency over the year . As a result , you can save money and increase your comfort by properly maintain and upgrade your HVAC equipment . Another development be the whole house approach to heating and cool . Coupled with an energy efficient furnace , heat pump or air-conditioner , the whole house approach can have a great impact on your energy bill . By combining proper equipment maintenance and upgrade with appropriate insulation , weatherization and thermostat setting - properly regulate with a programmable thermostat , of course - you may be able to cut your energy bill in half . All major appliance include gas furnace , boiler , air conditioner and heat pump sell in California meet the Title-24 energy efficiency standard . If you be think about purchase a new central furnace , check the ENERGY STAR database , which us information supply by the California Energy Commission . It display information on most energy efficient appliance in a consumer-friendly , easy-to-use fashion . Central Air Conditioning Central air condition unit be usually match with a gas or oil furnace to provide heat through the same set of duct . There be also central HVAC unit call heat pump that combine both the heating and cool function . If you heat your home with electricity , a heat pump system be the most efficient unit to use in moderate climate . It can provide up to three time more heating than the equivalent amount of electrical energy it consume . A heat pump can trim the amount of electricity you use for heating a much a 30 percent to 40 percent . Even though air conditioner and heat pump require the use of some different component , they both operate on the same basic principle . How They Work Heat pump and most central air conditioner be call `` split system '' because there be an outdoor unit ( call a condenser ) and an indoor unit ( an evaporator coil ) . The job of the heat pump or air conditioner be to transport heat from one of these unit to the other . In the summer , for example , the system extract heat from indoor air and transfer it outside , leave cool indoor air to be recirculated through your duct by a fan . A substance call a refrigerant carry the heat from one area to another . Basically , here 's how it work : The compressor in your outdoor unit will change the gaseous refrigerant into a high temperature , high-pressure gas . As that gas flow through the outdoor coil , it lose heat . That make the refrigerant condense into a high temperature , high pressure liquid that flow through copper tube into the evaporator coil locate in your fan coil unit or attach to your furnace . At that point , the liquid refrigerant be allow to expand , turn the liquid refrigerant into a low temperature , low pressure gas . The gas then absorb heat from the air circulate in your home 's ductwork , leave it full of cooler air to be distribute throughout the house . Meanwhile , the low temperature , low pressure refrigerant gas return to the compressor to begin the cycle all over again . While your air conditioner or heat pump cool the air , it also dehumidify it . That 's because warm air pass over the indoor evaporator coil can not hold a much moisture a it carry at a high temperature , before it be cool . The extra moisture condenses on the outside of the coil and be carry away through a drain . The process be similar to what happens on a hot , humid day , when condense moisture bead up on the outside of a glass of cold lemonade . The same process work in reverse in a heat pump during the winter . The heat pump take heat out of the outside air - or out of the ground , if you have a geothermal heat pump - and it move that heat inside , where it be transfer from the evaporator coil to the air circulate through your home . That 's not a typographical error , by the way- the heat pump move heat from outside to warm your home , even on a cold day . That 's because `` cold '' be a relative term . Air a cold a 30 degree still contain a great deal of heat - the temperature at which air no longer carry any heat be well below -200 degree Fahrenheit . A heat pump 's heat exchanger can squeeze heat out of cold air , then transfer that heat into your home with the help of a fan which circulate the warm air through your duct . Heat pump be often instal with back-up electric resistance heat or a furnace to handle heating requirement when more heat be need than the heat pump can efficiently extract from the air . Types of Systems We 've just describe what be call a `` split system '' - the condensing unit be place outside the house , and the evaporator coil be inside . There be another configuration call a `` package '' air conditioner that combine the condense unit and the evaporator coil into one outdoor unit . Which type you should choose depends on your home 's location and construction . Rating a Unit 's Efficiency The efficiency of central air condition system be rat by a Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio ( SEER ) . SEER rating typically range from 13 to 23 , with the high number indicate the most efficient unit that offer the most energy saving year after year . Fortunately , great stride have be make in the last 10 year to increase the efficiency of new air conditioner and heat pump . The typical SEER rating of air conditioner manufacture before 1992 be about 6.0 . In 1992 , the federal government establish the minimum cooling efficiency standard for unit instal in new home at 10 . The minimum SEER value change again in 2006 to a SEER of 13 . The SEER rating be usually show on a yellow and black EnergyGuide sticker attach to the outside unit of the air conditioner . Central air conditioner that be in the top 25 percent of efficient model may carry the Energy Star label . To qualify , they must have a minimum SEER efficiency level of 14.5 . Additionally , Energy Star model must also have a minimum Energy Efficiency Ratio ( EER ) of at least 12 for split system , and of at least 11.0 for single-package model . Air conditioner that bear the Energy Star label may be twice a efficient a some exist system . Heat pump also have heat efficiency rating , indicate a a Heating Seasonal Performance Factor ( HSPF ) . In general , the high the HSPF rating , the less electricity the unit will use to do it job . In 1992 , the federal government establish the minimum heating efficiency standard for new heat pump at 6.8 HSPF . ( Most heat pump manufacture before 1992 have HSPF rating below 5 . ) The minimum HSPF standard change again in 2006 to an HSPF of 7.7 . High-efficiency central air-conditioning heat pump can also qualify a Energy Star model . Higher efficiency unit usually cost more to purchase initially , but save money in the long run on operating cost . Sound Levels Few people think about how loud an air conditioner or heat pump will be - at least until the unit be instal and run in their back yard . With some unit , the noise create by the condense unit outside can even interfere with indoor peace and quiet . That 's why you should compare the sound level produce by different model when you be shop for a new unit . The sound level of outdoor unit be measure in bel ( a term similar to decibel ) . The rating scale go from 0 - the rating for a barely perceptible sound - to 13 - the threshold of pain . Most air conditioner and heat pump operate in the range of 8 to 9 bel , although some be quiet enough to rate a 6.8 bel . ( While that may not sound like a wide range , consider 