face the fire : Smart meter and dumb people face the fire climate and climate change news and view 2012-08-27 Smart meter and dumb people Posted by .brian at 8/27/2012 12:19:00 PM Email This BlogThis ! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest As a regular listener of Coast to Coast AM , I have be aware of a conspiracy theory involve the transition from old-timey analog utility meter to internet-connected smart meter . Smart meter allow 2-way communication between a house 's utility meter and the utility company . The idea be to monitor electricity use in real time ( or near real time ) , which can allow more nimble management of the electric grid . The idea be to get electricity where it be need when it be need and allow better management of electricity generation . Both proponent and opponent cite the potential for tiered pricing , such a raising price during peak energy use time . While some say this will help incentivize energy conservation , others say the tiered pricing could hurt low income household disproportionately . The consipracists , however , be not worry about low-income household or energy conservation . There be really two flavor of the smart meter conspiracy . First be an irrational fear of technology that manifest a a concern about the radiation from smart meter be a health hazard . Yes , really [ example ] . This be not a legitimate concern , a the radiation level be even below those of cell phone , and it be unlikely that many resident will spend significant time with their head agains their electricity meter . The second version of the conspiracy be root in a deep distrust of government and an overly aggressive view of privacy . These be the people , like the one cite in this Grist post [ LINK ] and the accompanying AP news article [ LINK ] about the smart meter opposition in Texas , who believe that the smart meter be ... well , let 's just boil it down , they think that the smart meter allow the government to spy on them at home [ great example , go ahead a browse this crazy site , I 'll wait . ] . There might be some actual privacy issue with smart meter ( which that example kind of hit , but then go to crazy ) , such a the potential for utility to synthesize usage and sell the information to interested party ( who want to target their marketing effort ) . This probably be n't much of a concern at this point , a it be unclear that utility be savvy enough to profitably undertake such an analysis . Really , this come down to some far-right-wing idea that get mix up by fear monger into ridiculous conspiracy theory , encapsulate by this quote from the above cite blog , `` This be all part of the radical green agenda that be be force down the throat of people all over the world . '' Maybe I should just list a couple of point that I think be relevant ( in no particular order ) : Energy conservation be a good idea , and represent one of the `` stabilization wedge '' that we talk about a currently available solution to global warming . [ LINK ] The radiation associate with electronics be not harmful . [ LINK ] One of the criticism that the opponent of smart meter seem to bring up often be that the FCC do not have strong enough restriction on radiation [ example ] . Yet , a point out in Grist and the AP story above , these people tend to be on the far-right/libertarian/tea-party fringe of the political spectrum , mean that philosophically they be oppose to government regulation ( in favor of let the `` market '' work out the appropriate solution ) . This be completely inconsistent . I do n't think this be an argument against the smart meter opposition , just a point that I wish would be discuss . The possibility of utility sell the information aside , there seem to be a general fear of a degradation of privacy with smart meter , but I do n't think there be any evidence that any personal information could be or be be collect by these meter . The transition to smart meter be be drive by the `` market '' a utility try to reduce cost and maximize efficiency . This be a direct descendant of the deregulation of utility in the USA , which right-leaning folks should be applaud ( if they be be consistent with their purport economic philosophy ) . Because the utility be deregulate , this information would be flow to the utility , and not the government . That mean that there must be an extra layer of conspiracy in order to bring the government into the picture . Each additional layer of conspiracy make the theory le and less plausible . I think I can leave it there . Note that in the link above that be cite a example , I have use the `` rel=nofollow '' attribute which prevents search engine from follow the link and improve those cite ' search ranking . I decide to do that because those cite , while entertaining , do not present a useful view of the issue . The other link be normal , and represent appropriate source material . No comment : Post a Comment Newer Post Older Post Home Subscribe to : Post Comments ( Atom ) Subscribe Posts Atom Posts Comments Atom Comments Interesting Items Archives 2012 ( 8 ) December ( 1 ) August ( 2 ) American Meteorological Society Statement on Clima ... Smart meter and dumb people July ( 1 ) May ( 1 ) April ( 1 ) March ( 1 ) January ( 1 ) 2011 ( 25 ) December ( 1 ) October ( 2 ) September ( 3 ) August ( 2 ) July ( 2 ) June ( 1 ) May ( 1 ) March ( 4 ) February ( 5 ) January ( 4 ) 2010 ( 54 ) November ( 4 ) October ( 8 ) September ( 2 ) August ( 1 ) July ( 1 ) June ( 6 ) May ( 8 ) April ( 2 ) March ( 4 ) February ( 6 ) January ( 12 ) 2009 ( 96 ) December ( 6 ) November ( 7 ) October ( 11 ) September ( 7 ) August ( 9 ) July ( 12 ) June ( 5 ) May ( 14 ) April ( 16 ) March ( 3 ) February ( 4 ) January ( 2 ) 2008 ( 17 ) October ( 1 ) September ( 1 ) August ( 3 ) June ( 2 ) May ( 1 ) April ( 4 ) March ( 1 ) February ( 3 ) January ( 1 ) 2007 ( 10 ) November ( 1 ) October ( 2 ) September ( 2 ) April ( 2 ) March ( 1 ) February ( 1 ) January ( 1 ) 2006 ( 46 ) December ( 3 ) November ( 1 ) October ( 1 ) September ( 2 ) August ( 7 ) July ( 6 ) June ( 1 ) May ( 1 ) April ( 4 ) March ( 4 ) February ( 7 ) January ( 9 ) 2005 ( 83 ) December ( 8 ) November ( 3 ) October ( 4 ) September ( 15 ) August ( 2 ) July ( 11 ) June ( 5 ) May ( 6 ) April ( 8 ) March ( 21 ) Links Climate Ark ClimatePrediction.net DeSmogBlog Forecasts Google News Jeff Masters LiveScience.com RealClimate ScienceBlogs Union of Concerned Scientists Go shopping ! Amazon.com Widgets Disclaimer While the news report and link from this blog belong to the author of that material , the perspective include here be entirely my opinion . Any original analysis or figure should be consider preliminary at best , and may be share freely provide notification be send to me via this blog 's comment or through other electronic communication . None of the content here be support in any way by my employer , funding agency , or any branch of the United States government . Enjoy . Simple template . Powered by Blogger . 