CPS Energy prepares to install smart meter KSAT BREAKING NEWS Council approve ride-share law Tweet This San Antonio Weather Full Forecast Tonight Tomorrow 7-Day Home News News Local News Defenders Crime Fighters Arrest Reports Behind the Kitchen Door Consumer Politics Weather Weather National Radar Texas Radar Alerts Drought Aquifer Allergens Critter Cam Hurricanes Traffic Sports Sports Big Game Coverage Spurs Cowboys Texans UTSA Instant Replay Scholar Athlete Entertainment Entertainment SA Live Queen Latifah TV Listings MeTV Watch ABC Shows SA Live Lifestyle Lifestyle Military Food Pets Adopt A Pet Health Automotive KSAT Community Chef Spotlight Marketplace Marketplace Health/Wellness Experts Local Experts Legal Experts HEB Kitchen Real Estate Council approve ride-share law > NEWS CPS Energy prepares to install smart meter More than a million smart electric , gas meter to be instal by 2018 Posted August 06 , 2014 , 4:50 PM Updated August 07 , 2014 , 3:57 AM By Tim Gerber Reporter SAN ANTONIO - Your home be about to get a little smarter when it come to monitor how much energy you use . Over the next four year CPS Energy will replace more than 1 million electric and gas meter in Bexar County . The utility say it 's spending $ 290 million to upgrade the old meter to smart meter . CPS Energy worker be test the late shipment of smart meter Wednesday that will soon take the place of 740,000 analog meter . According to Dwain Duke , director of system measurement and technology , the smart meter be more accurate and have built-in communication capability that should help speed up repair when the light go out . `` The meter will send a ( signal ) back to our operation center , so that will allow u to well locate the fault or the outage and respond to that outage , '' Duke say . Once crew respond and repair the outage , the meter can let them know if any other problem still exist . `` We 'll send a ping to the meter to make sure everybody be restore , '' Duke say . `` So if the Duke household have not be restore , another outage be create while the folk be on-site and it get respond to in a faster mode . '' The new meter will also make manual meter reading obsolete and help customer keep good track of their energy consumption with a special web portal . `` As an individual customer you can look at your hourly usage and make adjustment a you see fit , '' Duke say . As part of the switch-out program , 340,000 gas meter be also get an upgrade that should make bill more accurate . The gas meter will be able to communicate with the electric meter to track consumption . `` The module actually communicate with the electric meter , once a day at midnight , to let the electric meter know how much consumption be actually see in this gas meter , '' say CPS gas director Jacob De Leon . CPS say it test 10 percent of every shipment . If any of the meter fail , the entire shipment be reject . `` They test these meter for accuracy , make sure the energy consumption demand be accurate that they communicate , so that when we put them on a residence or business that they can be trust , '' De Leon . CPS Energy say 40,000 smart meter have already be instal a part of a 2011 pilot program . The utility be recycle all of the old meter and expect to have the upgrade complete by 2018 . Copyright 2014 by KSAT - All right reserve . Comments The view express be not those of this company or it affiliate company . Please note by clicking on `` Post '' you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Service and the comment you be post be in compliance with such term . Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Watch Live TV Listings Subscribe Email Newsletters Mobile Text Alerts RSS Inside KSAT KSAT News Team Careers Community Calendar Closed Captioning Site Search Connect with KSAT Contact Us Advertise with KSAT Terms of Use Privacy Policy Public File Disabled ? Need help with public file ? Call ( 210 ) 351-1213 . 2015 . KSAT.com be publish by Graham Media Group , a division of Graham Holdings . 