EU Imposes Ban On High-Powered Vacuum Cleaners 0 0 0 0 0 0 Home Energy Energy-General Oil Prices Crude Oil Heating Oil Gas Prices Natural Gas Coal Metals Gold Silver Platinum Commodities Foodstuffs Copper Alt . Energy Nuclear Power Solar Energy Hydroelectric Renewable Energy Geothermal Energy Wind Power Fuel Cells Tidal Energy Biofuels Environment Global Warming Oil Spills Geopolitics Africa Asia Europe Indonesia International Middle East North America South America Finance the Economy the Markets Investing & Trading Reports Widgets News Interviews Company News Log In Sign Up Advertising Contact Us About Authors Contributors Write for Us a a a Home EU Imposes Ban On High-Powered Vacuum Cleaners EU Imposes Ban On High-Powered Vacuum Cleaners By Andy Tully Posted on Sun , 24 August 2014 00:00 | 11 A British consumer group be warn household to rush out and buy powerful vacuum cleaner before theyre ban throughout Europe . As of Sept. 1 , manufacturer will be forbidden to make or import any vacuum machine with motor strong than 1,600 watt . The rule , set forth by the European Commission , be aim at slowing climate change by cutting Europes energy use . The EC contend the new standard mean European consumer will get good vacuum cleaner than ever before . The consumer rating agency Which ? say that doesnt make sense . Five of their seven high rat vacuum have motor high than 1,600 watt . If youre in the market for a powerful vacuum , you should act quickly , before all of the model currently available sell out , the Which ? magazine say in it late issue . A Best Buy , 2,200-watt cleaner us around 27 ( $ 44 ) worth of electricity each year , about 8 ( $ 13.27 ) more than the best-scoring 1,600 [ -watt machine ] weve test . The vacuum cleaner ban echo an early ban on traditional light bulb . Consumers complain then that the replacement be costly and take too long to reach maximum brightness . But Brussels argues that the new rule dont affect the performance of light bulb or vacuum . Vacuum cleaner will use less energy for the same performance how much dust they pick up , European Commission spokesman Marlene Holzner write last year , defend the change . This will help consumer to save money and make Europe a a whole use less energy . The average vacuum for sale in Europe have an 1,800-watt motor . This will have to be halve within the next three year , a the limit of 1,600 watt will be reduce to just 900 watt in September 2017 . But , [ t ] he amount of watt do not automatically indicate how well a vacuum cleaner will clean . The amount of watt indicate how much electrical power be use by the engine , Holzner write . The important question be : How efficient be this electrical power translate into picking-up dust ? Under the new rule , vacuum cleaner will be give a rating from A to G base on their performance on hard floor , carpet , and how much dust be emit during operation . But the Dyson group of Britain , which make several popular , powerful vacuum cleaner , be challenge this criterion and have apply for a judicial review of the EU directive . It argue that the propose performance metric dont include evaluate vacuum when there be already dirt inside what Dyson call dust-loaded . Dyson , whose vacuum dont use bag , say 126 million bag and filter from new vacuum cleaner end up in landfill across the EU every year , yet the new labeling system do not reflect their impact on the environment . By Andy Tully of Oilprice.com Join the discussion About the author Andy Tully News Editor Andy Tully be a veteran news reporter who be now the news editor for Oilprice.com full bio Oilprice Premium Inside Investor Inside Opportunities Executive Reports Inside Intelligence Inside Markets Why Energy Investors Need Premium In Oilprice Premium The Two Great Survivors In Offshore Surprising Opportunities In Coal Activist Investing What You Need To Know Global Energy Advisory 27th February 2015 Selling Pressure Rises As Rig Count Drop Slows One Player Thats Not Headed Off A Cliff Special Reports 8 Mega Trends By Oil & Energy Insider Analysts 8 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY MEGA-TRENDS AND HOW TO PROFIT FROM THEM Here 's what our 400 global energy asset be tell u to be prepare for right now ... LNG Technology By Oil & Energy Insider Analysts THE `` FLOATING REFINERY '' STOCK THAT COULD FUND YOUR RETIREMENT This company 's incredible tanker technology could eliminate many of the world 's offshore pipeline ... Subsea Production By Oil & Energy Insider Analysts THE END OF OFFSHORE DRILLING ? This disruptive market will grow 84 % to 270 % over the next five year : Discover the 6 equipment supplier set to profit . Leave a comment Dereke on August 30 2014 say : The sooner David Cameron get his act together and tell Brussels to get lose the good for Britain Andrew on August 30 2014 say : Energy consumption ? - look at the electricity be consume by floodlighting building and landmark in city throughout the world . Also , the power consume by floodlighting stadium for football , rugby and cricket - and I 'm very much into sport , but it seem we must satisfy the greed of the big TV company who make a fortune from televise such event . decent on August 26 2014 say : well , 2,2kW vacuum cleaner be more like hot air heater than cleaner . Their inefficiency be just so great . For example with that same 2,2kW power you could fill high pressure dive tank at pressure 200 BAR at rate 100l/minute , while 2,2kW cleaner do n't do much useful work other than heating air . Randy on August 25 2014 say : As long a people believe everything their government tell them , there wil be nonsense like this . Climate change be a factof life . It 's be go on for a long a Earth have orbit the Sun . Whatever come , will come , and no amount of government tamper or directive will 'correct ' it , because it be a CYCLE . And you ca n't alter this kind of cycle . In time past there be more carbon in the atmosphere . It do n't seem to have hurt the life at the time . Government find that they could imtimidate 'The People ' when they ban Freon , base upon the 'Ozone Hole ' in the stratosphere . It 's be 'Katy , Bar The Door ' ever since . gdw on August 25 2014 say : three thing be abundantly clear . 1 ) Those make the rule have no idea about the difference between power and energy . 2 ) the less powerful ( assume same efficacy ) vacuum cleaner will need to be use more so wear out sooner , so contribute to a significant increase in material waste . 3 ) we be talk misunderstood drop in the ocean compare to the waste energy through poor insulation in building , vehicle be drive too fast , traffic jam , EU minister fly around Europe instead of use video conferencing ... ... . Big Bad Jack on August 25 2014 say : Bureaucrats be like teat on a bull and a penis on a priest combine : useless . mac on August 25 2014 say : I would LOVE to see someone ( or good several someone ) go into the public gallery in the US Capital and the equivalent place in Europe and at a specify time every one throw some of the new hazardous light bulb down onto the floor so that they break and release all that mercury in the to air . First off the government personnel would go scatter ( so they would n't get mercury poisoning , and so that they would have to bring in the hazmat team to clean everything up . If they do it the way we be tell to clean up if we drop a bulb , the government of western society would be shut down for 2 day . Lukas on August 25 2014 say : This be how socialist bureaucracy spread . I have 2200 W vacuum cleaner , and most of the time I use it on 3/6 set . I have measure that it consume then around 1200 W power . So accord to UE I should lose the ability to use setting 5 and 6 when I will but a new model . Great , just great . Sometimes they be useful , a it be much quicker to pick up use high set . The overall power drain may rise ... . Gary on August 25 2014 say : Hogwash ! Having a lesser powerful machine mean you spend a longer time vacuum . Which consume more energy . ( watt x time ) In the end , I do n't see a saving . Only an increase in consumer frustration . decent on August 25 2014 say : 2kW be a whole a lot of power . The issue with vacuum cleaner be that number of watt that be write on the box be main selling argument . It do n't neccessarily convert into sucking power in a linear manner . As a result inefficiency be sell . For example , I have 40 year old vacuum cleaner , still work . It use only 500W but it sucking power be equal to modern vacuum cleaner . If not good even . But it be heavy and large than most modern vacuum cleaner . Using more power in a less efficient way allow to build cheap and small vacuum cleaner . That be the point . Linda on August 25 2014 say : 1 . I still dislike and refuse to use those pigtail light ... .I want the Edison lightbulb return to the store . 2 . Those new lightbulb POLUTE the earth ... no one discard of them properly ... and so they go into the garbage and release their mercury into the soil ! 3 . Those new lightbulb be detrimental to eyesight ! My eye ca n't take much of them ! So , what be next on the enviro wackos ' agenda ? I be get quite miff by all of this ! When WILL it stop ? Captcha More About Us About Us Site News Sitemap Advertise with u Energy Oil Prices Crude Oil Gas Prices Heating Oil Metals Gold Silver Commodities Platinum Alternative Energy Nuclear Power Solar Energy Hydroelectric Renewable Energy 