Smart Growth / Smart Energy Toolkit - Accessory Dwelling Units ( ADU ) Accessory Dwelling Units ( ADU ) In Brief : An ADU be a self-contained apartment in an owner occupy single-family home/ lot that be either attach to the principal dwelling or in a separate structure on the same property . The Problem The census show that the average number of people per household have decrease significantly over the last 30 year ( from 3.1 in 1970 to 2.6 in 2002 ) . Yet , new home continue to be build , suggesting that there be increase capacity in the exist housing stock . This have occur while the value of home and the result tax burden continue to rise . Homeowners be often force to sell a house that be too big for their need , especially for fix income resident . This issue far exacerbate the already exist scarcity of affordable housing option , and the land consumption and new infrastructure require for a standard single family subdivision be significant . ADU 's can provide owner the additional income necessary to maintain a home when the structure become more than they need or can afford . If the resident do sell , their option to re-purchase within the community may then be severely limit by price and size . Do they have to move into a congregate living community , or be there some way they can stay within their town and even within their neighborhood ? A household may wish to provide a new self-contained unit within their property to receive additional income , provide social and personal support to a family member , or obtain great security . However , this practice be often unlawful because of basic zoning restriction on the allow number of unit per lot . New , young worker in a community may decide that home ownership be a longer-term goal , and a small rental apartment be more appropriate now . When apartment become hard to find in a community , these worker may have to live outside of the community and away from their family . What can be do to house the single , independent worker ? A mechanism be need that enables homeowner to provide separate unit that fit in the neighborhood and to increase option and affordability for both homeowner and renter or family member , and not affect the quality and physical character of the neighborhood . Introduction to Accessory Dwelling Units Accessory unit ( also know a accessory apartment , guest apartment , in-law apartment , family apartment or secondary unit ) provide supplementary housing that can be integrate into exist single family neighborhood to provide a typically low price house alternative with little or no negative impact on the character of the neighborhood . Because the unit be usually small , they be more affordable than full-size rental . There be three type of accessory unit : 1 ) Interior - use an interior part of a dwelling ; 2 ) Interior with modification where the outside of the dwelling be modify to accommodate a separate unit ( this could include a unit over the garage if the garage be attach ) 3 ) Detached - a structure on a residential lot that be separate from the main dwelling , yet by definition still `` accessory '' and so small than the main unit ( this would include a unit over the garage if the garage be detach ) . Examples of detached ADU's The common feature of all accessory unit be that they be self-contained ( they provide complete living facility for the use of one or more individual , with permanent provision for live , sleep , eat , cook , and sanitation ) and subordinate to the exist dwelling . The approach use by most municipality for accessory unit be a zoning bylaw that permit the additional , but accessory unit , allow certain improvement to be make to the exist dwelling . Restrictions that may be consider include whether the dwelling exist a of a certain date , the maximum allow building and site modification , the option for choose inhabitant , whether the owner must occupy the main unit , and minimum lot size . However , the great the number of restriction , the few option there be available to homeowner and the low the number home capable of adding unit . Credit : Many of the image , include those above , be provide by the City of Santa Cruz , California . Characteristics that Support Accessory Dwelling Units It be easy to create accessory unit when the follow condition be present : Available housing stock . Homes build with large amount of floor space allow accessory unit to be include with a proper amount of living space . Because the average size of home have generally be increase over time , more recent construction usually allow easy accommodation of accessory unit . Smaller home with sufficient lot area may also be acceptable when additional construction be permit . Preservation goal . Preservation of the older house stock could be more strongly encourage with an opportunity to create rental unit income . Aging demographic . As family become small , the large home ( 3 , 4 , or more bedroom ) be less likely to be fully occupy . Retirement may also put strain on home finance a choice be make base on fix income . Maintaining the stability of neighborhood mean find way to keep exist resident in place and provide additional income . Entry-level job growth . Job growth , especially in entry-level position , combine with a lack of local apartment mean more commuter on the road . Accessory apartment can provide low-cost rental for newly form household who help fill those job and support the local economy . Supportive neighborhood . Neighborhoods that accept small change to maintain their stability be most likely to be supportive when their resident request accessory unit for family or economic reason . Supportive local public policy . Local policy for house and neighborhood can accept a certain level of change to exist home that will not substantially change the fabric of the community or the livability of the neighborhood . Accessory Dwelling Units can be integrate into a variety of architectural style without disrupt neighborhood character . Benefits Typical lot layout for detached ADU's Accessory apartment help to increase a town 's supply of affordable housing and enhance the social stability and mix of neighborhood with little or no negative impact on the physical character of the neighborhood . They effectively improve the affordability of housing for both homeowner and renter at all stage in their life . Accessory Units also help to maximize use of exist public infrastructure and service and reduce the pressure on open space and farmland from sprawl development . The practice of allow accessory unit help community achieve several sustainable development principle : Expand Housing Opportunities : An accessory unit program help promote rehabilitation of housing and increase the supply of rental housing for a wider range of physical ability , stage in life and income level . Concentrate Development and Mix Uses : An accessory unit program help promote more compact form of development thus conserve land . Accessory unit promote use of exist infrastructure , rehabilitation of exist housing and can also assist in the preservation of historic buildingsAccessory unit also help to preserve the exist physical character of neighborhood and enable resident to stay in their community throughout all stage of their life . Use Natural Resources Wisely : Accessory unit help to concentrate development and thus use land , energy , water and material more efficiently . Accessory apartment ease development pressure on farmland and open space , improve drainage with a small footprint , and increase energy efficiency with a more compact living space . Financial Considerations Accessory unit provide benefit to the municipality , local employer , homeowner , family , the elderly and renter alike . Maintaining or increase the number of people per household unit a well a number of household per lot in existing residential area reduces the cost for municipality to extend utility and service , and preserve land . Municipalities gain additional tax revenue from accessory apartment a a result of improvement to the exist housing stock that increase the `` full and fair cash value '' of the property . The financial impact on municipality be also temper by the fact that accessory unit provide a housing option that enhance the moderately price house stock without require local funding . Local business benefit from accessory apartment a they provide moderately price accommodation for employee within the community . Accessory apartment also provide affordable housing for public sector employee ; social service professional and service sector worker such a day care instructor , teacher , nurse , home health care aide and security guard ; senior ; and young family . Increasing the number of more affordable unit can also help to attract new business to the community . smart growth / smart energy toolkit - accessory dwelling unit ( adu ) accessory dwelling unit ( adu ) in brief : an adu be a self-contained apartment in an owner occupy single-family home/ lot that be either attach to the principal dwelling or in a separate structure on the same property . the problem the census show that the average number of people per household have decrease significantly over the last 30 year ( from 3.1 in 1970 to 2.6 in 2002 ) . yet , new home continue to be build , suggesting that there be increase capacity in the exist housing stock . this have occur while the value of home and the result tax burden continue to rise . homeowner be often force to sell a house that be too big for their need , especially for fix income resident . this issue far exacerbate the already exist scarcity of affordable housing option , and the land consumption and new infrastructure require for a standard single family subdivision be significant . adu 's can provide owner the additional income necessary to maintain a home when the structure become more than they need or can afford . if the resident do sell , their option to re-purchase within the community may then be severely limit by price and size . do they have to move into a congregate living community , or be there some way they can stay within their town and even within their neighborhood ? a household may wish to provide a new self-contained unit within their property to receive additional income , provide social and personal support to a family member , or obtain great security . however , this practice be often unlawful because of basic zoning restriction on the allow number of unit per lot . new , young worker in a community may decide that home ownership be a longer-term goal , and a small rental apartment be more appropriate now . when apartment become hard to find in a community , these worker may have to live outside of the community and away from their family . what can be do to house the single , independent worker ? a mechanism be need that enables homeowner to provide separate unit that fit in the neighborhood and to increase option and affordability for both homeowner and renter or family member , and not affect the quality and physical character of the neighborhood . introduction to accessory dwelling unit accessory unit ( also know a accessory apartment , guest apartment , in-law apartment , family apartment or secondary unit ) provide supplementary housing that can be integrate into exist single family neighborhood to provide a typically low price house alternative with little or no negative impact on the character of the neighborhood . because the unit be usually small , they be more affordable than full-size rental . there be three type of accessory unit : 1 ) interior - use an interior part of a dwelling ; 2 ) interior with modification where the outside of the dwelling be modify to accommodate a separate unit ( this could include a unit over the garage if the garage be attach ) 3 ) detached - a structure on a residential lot that be separate from the main dwelling , yet by definition still `` accessory '' and so small than the main unit ( this would include a unit over the garage if the garage be detach ) . example of detached adu's the common feature of all accessory unit be that they be self-contained ( they provide complete living facility for the use of one or more individual , with permanent provision for live , sleep , eat , cook , and sanitation ) and subordinate to the exist dwelling . the approach use by most municipality for accessory unit be a zoning bylaw that permit the additional , but accessory unit , allow certain improvement to be make to the exist dwelling . restriction that may be consider include whether the dwelling exist a of a certain date , the maximum allow building and site modification , the option for choose inhabitant , whether the owner must occupy the main unit , and minimum lot size . however , the great the number of restriction , the few option there be available to homeowner and the low the number home capable of adding unit . credit : many of the image , include those above , be provide by the city of santa cruz , california . characteristic that support accessory dwelling unit it be easy to create accessory unit when the follow condition be present : available housing stock . home build with large amount of floor space allow accessory unit to be include with a proper amount of living space . because the average size of home have generally be increase over time , more recent construction usually allow easy accommodation of accessory unit . smaller home with sufficient lot area may also be acceptable when additional construction be permit . preservation goal . preservation of the older house stock could be more strongly encourage with an opportunity to create rental unit income . age demographic . a family become small , the large home ( 3 , 4 , or more bedroom ) be less likely to be fully occupy . retirement may also put strain on home finance a choice be make base on fix income . maintain the stability of neighborhood mean find way to keep exist resident in place and provide additional income . entry-level job growth . job growth , especially in entry-level position , combine with a lack of local apartment mean more commuter on the road . accessory apartment can provide low-cost rental for newly form household who help fill those job and support the local economy . supportive neighborhood . neighborhood that accept small change to maintain their stability be most likely to be supportive when their resident request accessory unit for family or economic reason . supportive local public policy . local policy for house and neighborhood can accept a certain level of change to exist home that will not substantially change the fabric of the community or the livability of the neighborhood . accessory dwelling unit can be integrate into a variety of architectural style without disrupt neighborhood character . benefit typical lot layout for detached adu's accessory apartment help to increase a town 's supply of affordable housing and enhance the social stability and mix of neighborhood with little or no negative impact on the physical character of the neighborhood . they effectively improve the affordability of housing for both homeowner and renter at all stage in their life . accessory unit also help to maximize use of exist public infrastructure and service and reduce the pressure on open space and farmland from sprawl development . the practice of allow accessory unit help community achieve several sustainable development principle : expand housing opportunity : an accessory unit program help promote rehabilitation of housing and increase the supply of rental housing for a wider range of physical ability , stage in life and income level . concentrate development and mix us : an accessory unit program help promote more compact form of development thus conserve land . accessory unit promote use of exist infrastructure , rehabilitation of exist housing and can also assist in the preservation of historic buildingsaccessory unit also help to preserve the exist physical character of neighborhood and enable resident to stay in their community throughout all stage of their life . use natural resource wisely : accessory unit help to concentrate development and thus use land , energy , water and material more efficiently . accessory apartment ease development pressure on farmland and open space , improve drainage with a small footprint , and increase energy efficiency with a more compact living space . financial consideration accessory unit provide benefit to the municipality , local employer , homeowner , family , the elderly and renter alike . maintaining or increase the number of people per household unit a well a number of household per lot in existing residential area reduces the cost for municipality to extend utility and service , and preserve land . municipality gain additional tax revenue from accessory apartment a a result of improvement to the exist housing stock that increase the `` full and fair cash value '' of the property . the financial impact on municipality be also temper by the fact that accessory unit provide a housing option that enhance the moderately price house stock without require local funding . local business benefit from accessory apartment a they provide moderately price accommodation for employee within the community . accessory apartment also provide affordable housing for public sector employee ; social service professional and service sector worker such a day care instructor , teacher , nurse , home health care aide and security guard ; senior ; and young family . increase the number of more affordable unit can also help to attract new business to the community . 