Cordless Vacuum Cleaners Buying Guide | Currys Search Menu Search Stores Account Basket 0 Home Kitchen Appliances Laundry Dishwashers Refrigeration Cooking Built-in Appliances Cooking Accessories Brand shop Services Buying for business ? Small Appliances Floorcare Ironing Sewing machine Health & beauty Small kitchen appliance Fans & heater Microwaves Brand shop Clearance Services Buying for business ? TV & Entertainment Televisions TV accessory DVD , Blu-ray & home cinema Digital set top box Gaming Projectors Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? Cameras Cameras Camcorders CCTV Bags , case and strap Memory Cards & Readers Binoculars & telescope Photography accessory Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? Audio All audio Hi-Fi & speaker dock Headphones Radios Portable audio iPods Dictation Sat nav Brand shop Clearance Services Buying for business ? Computing Laptops iPad , tablet and eReaders Desktop PCs Monitors and projector Printers , scanner & ink Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? PC Accessories Print , ink & office Tablet & PC accessory Bags , case & sleeve PC game Hard drive & storage Components & upgrade Software Internet & network Brand shop Learn more about Knowhow service Clearance Buying for business ? Phones Mobile phone Mobile phone accessory Mobile broadband Home phone Fax machine Sat nav Smart Tech Smart Tech Smart watch & fitness Smart health Smart toy & gadget Smart home Sat nav Brand shop Learn more about Kitchen Appliances Small Appliances TV & Entertainment Cameras Audio Computing PC Accessories Phones Smart Tech Home cordless vacuum buy guide Navigation Close Floorcare Buying Guide Upright Cylinder Cordless Steam Cleaners Carpet Washers Cordless Vacuums Small , compact and perfect for a quick clean or for cleaning a small area , Cordless vacuum cleaner be light and battery power , so you can use them almost anywhere . Cordless vacuum cleaner include Handsticks , which be similar to upright cleaner but be light and small , and handheld vacuum cleaner , which be small and portable , make them perfect for spot clean and clean inside your car . Handsticks can often convert into a handheld vacuum , give you the best of both world . There be now full size upright vacuum that be battery power which combine the power and capacity of a traditional vacuum with the flexibility and ease of use of a handstick . Cordless v handheld Cordless vacuum cleaner , or handsticks , be similar in design to upright , but be lightweight with small capacity . They be suit to light cleaning such a regular vacuuming and be popular when space be limit . As well a provide excellent clean for small space , they be easy to store than upright or cylinder cleaner thanks to their compact design . This make them ideal for use in flat where storage space can be limit and a large capacity cleaner be not necessary . Handheld vacuum be excellent for cleaning crumb and mess from around your home , and for cleaning car , caravan and other small space . They have a limit capacity , but be design for light cleaning . View our range of cordless vacuum View our range of handheld vacuum Performance The power of cordless vacuum cleaner be measure in volt ( V ) . The high the voltage of the clean , the more powerful it be and the more dirt it will be able to pick up . More powerful model can also power a rotating brush bar more effectively ensure you get a great clean on your carpet . Capacity The capacity of cordless vacuum cleaner be measure in litre ( l ) . Handstick and handheld vacuum cleaner tend to have small capacity than upright or cylinder vacuum cleaner a they be design to clean small area . This mean they will need to be empty more often . Cordless vacuum cleaner have a dust container to collect dust and dirt which be empty when full , rather than a vacuum bag . Run Time Cordless cleaner use rechargeable battery to power them , which need to be recharge when the battery be run low . The 'run time ' refers to how long the cleaner will run on a single charge before run out of battery . Vacuum cleaner with lithium battery may have a long run time , but battery time vary between different model . Many last 15-20 minute , provide ample clean time for a small area , but others can last up to 60 minute on a single charge . The other benefit of lithium power vacuum be they charge much more quickly and generally `` shut off '' once they be fully charge so you do n't waste energy while still plug in . View our range of long lasting cordless vacuum Pets To battle against tenacious pet hair that can leave a musty smell in your home , some cordless vacuum cleaner include tool that make it easy to pick up hair . Whether it be cling to the carpet or the sofa , the high speed brush of mini turbo tool can lift and remove pet hair . As cordless vacuum cleaner can be easy to move around the home than upright or cylinder vacuum cleaner , they can be more suit to use for those with pet , allow you to clean pet hair from all around your home . Although they pick up pet hair , motorise tool will also reduce the run time . View our range Accessories Cordless vacuum cleaner can include tool that help with specific job . This can include crevice tool for clean small space and dust brush that can be use for cleaning delicate item . Some cleaner have brush with stiff bristle , help to dislodge the ground in dirt . View our range Shop By Brand Shopping with Currys Price promise Our price promise mean we wo n't be beat on price , If you find Argos , Asda , John lewis , Tesco or AO.com have the same product at a cheap price , we 'll match it - even up to 7 day after purchase . Discover the late technology in store Over 450 Currys PC World store nationwide with expert advice and demonstration available , plus extend open hour make shop even easy . Look out for a range of product available for 'take home today ' in the store . Shop your way Its easy to shop online , with our large range of product available to order for delivery to your home or local store , plus Reserve and Collect from your nearest store within an hour . Credit option Spread the cost of major purchase . A range of flexible credit option be available . Returns policy Peace of mind with our 21 day return policy . Just return your product unopened , with your receipt and we 'll exchange it for something more suitable or refund in full . Unbeatable service bring to you by Free delivery Delivery start from free . You can also choose next day delivery or a day and time to suit you . Recycling Bring your unwanted electrical product into your nearest Currys store and we 'll take it off your hand for free , even if you buy elsewhere . Vacuum cleaner support & protection With a Care Plan , we 'll fix or replace if anything go wrong . If your vacuum cleaner be under 150 , we 'll give you a new one on the spot . Customer service Delivery & Recycling Track my Order Installation Services Returns & Cancellations Product Recall Alert Shopping with Currys Order online & collect in store Price Promise Gift Cards Payment & Finance Options Privacy & Cookies We 're here to help Product Care Plans Customer Services Repairs Buying Guides Contact u Store finder Enter your postcode to find your nearest Currys store : Search uk , map , vantage Layer 1 Our other website KNOWHOW | PC World Business | Currys Ireland | Currys Partmaster | Currys TechTalk | About DSG Retail Ltd Corporate site | Careers | PR & Media DSG Retail Limited 2014 . DSG Retail Ltd , Maylands Avenue , Hemel Hempstead , HP2 7TG . Company registration number : 504877 , VAT number : 226 6599 33 Terms & Conditions 