How do electric motor work ? - Explain that Stuff You be here : Home page > Electricity and electronics > Electric motor Home A-Z index Get the book Follow u Random article Timeline Teaching guide About u Privacy policy Advertisement Electric motor Tweet by Chris Woodford . Last update : May 30 , 2014 . F lick a switch and get instant powerhow our ancestor would have love electric motor ! You can find them in everything from electric train to remote-controlled carsand you might be surprise how common they be . How many electric motor be there in the room with you right now ? There be probably two in your computer for starter , one spin your hard drive around and another one power the cool fan . If you 're sit in a bedroom , you 'll find motor in hair dryer and many toy ; in the bathroom , they 're in extractor fan , and electric shaver ; in the kitchen , motor be in just about every appliance from clothes wash machine and dishwasher to coffee grinder , microwave , and electric can opener . Electric motor have prove themselves to be among the great invention of all time . Let 's pull some apart and find out how they work ! Photo : Even small electric motor be surprisingly heavy . That 's because they 're pack with tightly wound copper and heavy magnet . This be the motor from an old electric lawn mower . The copper-colored thing toward the front of the axle , with slit cut into it , be the commutator that keep the motor spin in the same direction ( a explain below ) . Electricity , magnetism , and movement The basic idea of an electric motor be really simple : you put electricity into it at one end and an axle ( metal rod ) rotates at the other end give you the power to drive a machine of some kind . How do this work in practice ? Exactly how do your convert electricity into movement ? To find the answer to that , we have to go back in time almost 200 year . Suppose you take a length of ordinary wire , make it into a big loop , and lay it between the pole of a powerful , permanent horseshoe magnet . Now if you connect the two end of the wire to a battery , the wire will jump up briefly . It 's amaze when you see this for the first time . It's just like magic ! But there 's a perfectly scientific explanation . When an electric current start to creep along a wire , it create a magnetic field all around it . If you place the wire near a permanent magnet , this temporary magnetic field interacts with the permanent magnet 's field . You 'll know that two magnet place near one another either attract or repel . In the same way , the temporary magnetism around the wire attract or repels the permanent magnetism from the magnet , and that 's what cause the wire to jump . Fleming 's Left-Hand Rule You can figure out the direction in which the wire will jump use a handy mnemonic ( memory aid ) call Fleming 's Left-Hand Rule ( sometimes call the Motor Rule ) . Hold out the thumb , first finger , and second finger of your left hand so all three be at right angle . If you point the se C ond finger in the direction of the C urrent ( which flow from the positive to the negative terminal of the battery ) , and the F irst finger in the direction of the F ield ( which flow from the North to the South pole of the magnet ) , your thu M b will show the direction in which the wire M oves . That 's ... F irst finger = F ield Se C ond finger = C urrent Thu M b = M otion How an electric motor worksin theory Photo : An electrician repair an electric motor onboard an aircraft carrier . The shiny metal he 's use may look like gold , but it 's actually copper , a significantly well conductor that be much le expensive . Photo by Jason Jacobowitz courtesy of US Navy . The link between electricity , magnetism , and movement be originally discover in 1820 by French physicist Andr-Marie Ampre ( 17751867 ) and it 's the basic science behind an electric motor . But if we want to turn this amazing scientific discovery into a more practical bit of technology to power our electric mower and toothbrush , we 've get to take it a little bit far . The inventor who do that be Englishmen Michael Faraday ( 17911867 ) and William Sturgeon ( 17831850 ) and American Joseph Henry ( 17971878 ) . Here 's how they arrive at their brilliant invention . Suppose we bend our wire into a squarish , U-shaped loop so there be effectively two parallel wire run through the magnetic field . One of them take the electric current away from u through the wire and the other one brings the current back again . Because the current flow in opposite direction in the wire , Fleming 's Left-Hand Rule tell u the two wire will move in opposite direction . In other word , when we switch on the electricity , one of the wire will move upward and the other will move downward . If the coil of wire could carry on moving like this , it would rotate continuouslyand we 'd be well on the way to make an electric motor . But that ca n't happen with our present setup : the wire will quickly tangle up . Not only that , but if the coil could rotate far enough , something else would happen . Once the coil reach the vertical position , it would flip over , so the electric current would be flow through it the opposite way . Now the force on each side of the coil would reverse . Instead of rotate continuously in the same direction , it would move back in the direction it have just come ! Imagine an electric train with a motor like this : it would keep shuffle back and forward on the spot without ever actually go anywhere . How an electric motor worksin practice There be two way to overcome this problem . One be to use a kind of electric current that periodically reverse direction , which be know a an alternate current ( AC ) . In the kind of small , battery-powered motor we use around the home , a good solution be to add a component call a commutator to the end of the coil . ( Do n't worry about the meaningless technical name : this slightly old-fashioned word `` commutation '' be a bit like the word `` commute '' . It simply mean to change back and forth in the same way that commute mean to travel back and forth . ) In it simplest form , the commutator be a metal ring divide into two separate half and it job be to reverse the electric current in the coil each time the coil rotates through half a turn . One end of the coil be attach to each half of the commutator . The electric current from the battery connects to the motor 's electric terminal . These fee electric power into the commutator through a pair of loose connector call brush , make either from piece of graphite ( soft carbon similar to pencil `` lead '' ) or thin length of springy metal , which ( a the name suggest ) `` brush '' against the commutator . With the commutator in place , when electricity flow through the circuit , the coil will rotate continually in the same direction . Artwork : Left : A simplified diagram of the part in an electric motor . Right : How it work in practice . Note how the commutator reverse the current each time the coil turn halfway . This mean the force on each side of the coil be always push in the same direction , which keep the coil rotate clockwise . A simple , experimental motor such a this be n't capable of make much power . We can increase the turning force ( or torque ) that the motor can create in three way : either we can have a more powerful permanent magnet , or we can increase the electric current flow through the wire , or we can make the coil so it have many `` turn '' ( loop ) of very thin wire instead of one `` turn '' of thick wire . In practice , a motor also have the permanent magnet curve in a circular shape so it almost touch the coil of wire that rotates inside it . The closer together the magnet and the coil , the great the force the motor can produce . Inside a typical motor Although we 've describe a number of different part , you can think of a motor a have just two essential component : There 's a permanent magnet ( or magnet ) around the edge of the motor case that remain static , so it 's call the stator of a motor . Inside the stator , there 's the coil , mount on an axle that spin around at high speedand this be call the rotor . The rotor also include the commutator . Photo : The main part inside a medium-sized electric motor from a coffee grinder . The gray magnet round the edge be the stator . The orange-colored coil shown here link to the actual rotating coil inside the magnet ( which I 've mark , but be n't clearly visible ) . Note also the slit in the commutator and the carbon brush push against it . Motors in such thing a electric railroad train be many time big and more powerful than this , but essentially work the same way . Other kind of electric motor In ordinary DC motor , like the one we 've just consider , the rotor spin inside the stator . AC motor work a slightly different way : they pass alternate current through oppose pair of magnet to create a rotating magnetic field , which `` induce '' ( creates ) a magnetic field in the motor 's rotor , cause it to spin around . You can read more about this in our article on AC induction motor . If you take one of these induction motor and `` unwrap '' it , so the stator be effectively lay out into a long continuous track , the rotor can roll along it in a straight line . This ingenious design be know a a linear motor , and you 'll find it in such thing a factory machine and float `` maglev '' ( magnetic levitation ) railroad . Another interesting design be the brushless DC ( BLDC ) motor . The stator and rotor effectively swap over , with multiple iron coil static at the center and the permanent magnet rotate around them , and the commutator and brush be replace by an electronic circuit . You can read more in our main article on hub motor . Stepper motor , which turn around through precisely controlled angle , be a variation of brushless DC motor . Tweet Find out more Related article on our site Batteries Electronics Engines Hub motor Induction motor Linear motor Stepper motor Books for young reader Electric Mischief : Battery-Powered Gadgets Kids Can Build by Alan Bartholomew . Electricity : Make it Work by Alexandra Parsons . Princeton , NJ : Two-Can , 2000 . Books for old reader Practical Electric Motor Handbook by Irving Gottlieb , Newnes ( Elsevier ) , 1997 . Electric Motors and Drives : Fundamentals , Types and Applications by Austin Hughes , Newnes ( Elsevier ) , 2006 . Sponsored link Please do NOT copy our article onto blog and other website Text copyright Chris Woodford 2007 , 2012 . All right reserve . Full copyright notice and term of use . Follow u Rate this page Please rate or give feedback on this page and I will make a donation to WaterAid . Share this page Press CTRL + D to bookmark this page for late or tell your friend about it with : Cite this page Woodford , Chris . ( 2007 ) Electric Motors . Retrieved from http : //www.explainthatstuff.com/electricmotors.html . [ Accessed ( Insert date here ) ] More to explore on our website ... Communications Computers Electricity & electronics Energy 