Some blame smart meter for high bill | www.toacorn.com | Thousand Oaks Acorn HOME Print Edition PageView Flip PDF Tablet Mobile Other Publications The Acorn Camarillo Acorn Moorpark Acorn Simi Valley Acorn Thousand Oaks Acorn Beyond Submission Forms Contact Us Login Browse Archives News Front Page Community Faith Family Pets Health & Wellness Opinion Editorials Letters Sports On the Town Schools Business Real Estate Calendar Sheriff 's Blotter Advertising Advertising Information Private Party Order Rentals Order Service Directory E-mail Us 2012-10-11 / Front Page Tweet Print Some blame smart meter for high bill By Sylvie Belmond belmond @ theacorn.com UTILITY BILLSSome Southern California Edison customer say they have see a spike in their electric bill since the installation of smart meter at their home . Courtesy of Southern California Edison Susan Losonci have never pay more than $ 125 a month for electricity since she move into her Colodny Drive condo six year ago . But after Southern California Edison instal a new smart meter for her home on Aug. 1 , the Agoura Hills woman say her utility bill suddenly triple . There be something wrong . I have not use more electricity and I havent done anything new , so how do this smart meter charge me so much ? Losonci say . Even with her air conditioner work overtime during the summer heat wave , the extra use shouldnt amount to the significant increase in her bill , say Losonci , whose home be 1,150 square foot . The most Ive paid be $ 100 to $ 125 , and now all of a sudden it $ 318 . The heat have be go on for three month , so that cant be it , she say . CONNECTEDAn SCE employee installs a SmartConnect meter at a home . The controversial device allow customer to track their electrical use in real time . This summer , Edison instal it SmartConnect meter at home and business throughout the Conejo Valley , a well a in Camarillo , Moorpark and Simi Valley . The new device , which replace analog meter , digitally transmit customer electricity use to Edison and let the utility company connect and disconnect service remotely . According to a report on www.Forbes.com , score of consumer in Californias Central Valley pay for more electricity than they actually used due to the error of some 1,600 flaw smart meter belong to Pacific Gas and Electric Company . Im sure some of the meter be actually defective , Losonci say . Edison say the automate meter enhance system reliability and performance . Im not aware of any significant trend toward customer concern due to smart meter , say Rudy Gonzales , regional manager for SoCal Edison , who attribute high bill to the recent heat wave . Typically the company get more bill inquiry during the hot summer month , but it would be difficult to attribute these to smart meter , he say . People be run their air conditioner longer and theyve have to use more electricity , so it likely the reason customer be experience these high bill . The high bill give u an opportunity to share with folk what they can do to try to manage their bill , Gonzales say . Costs per kilowatt hour increase a people use more energy because power price be base on a tiered structure . Furthermore , Edison have two rate cycle , and the high summer rate end Sept. 30 , so bill should go down this month , Gonzales say . By transmitting information within a secure wireless network , the smart meter will give resident access to information , program and tool that will give them great control over their energy use and budget , he say . Edison offer incentive to help people reduce power use and save money . Starting in mid-November , Edison customer will be able to monitor their electricity consumption online and save money through budget-management tool and Save Power Day alert . They can sign up through their account on SCE.com . . . . Gonzales say . These be voluntary program . Smart meter dont give u the ability to regulate your energy usage but give you the option to voluntarily participate in energy conservation program . Gonzales say the automate meter be thoroughly test before be instal . But if a customer believe they be be overcharge , be more than happy to come out and complete a billing investigation . If it way off , we will adjust the bill . If it accurate , we will help the customer identify what be use the most power , the spokesperson say . But Agoura resident Al Federici , whose power bill go up from $ 235 in July to $ 480 for September , have misgiving about the new technology . The smart meter be not smart at all , say the unemployed electrical engineer who believe the meter switch occur too fast and without adequate testing to make sure they function properly . Federici and Agoura resident Joyce Watkins recently survey friend and neighbor to see if they also saw a change in their electric bill . Thirty-four people in the locale be have the same problem . Its a travesty , Federici say . While machine dont lie , computer dont always interpret the data accurately , he say . They may also fail to detect mechanical malfunction . The problem be how they translate kilowatt hour previously gather by reliable meter reader into electronic interpretation . This be always a problem . Its not 100 percent , and they guess a lot , Federici say . Watkins be also astound by her late electric bill . Ive never have a bill over $ 250 . For it to go to $ 400 it not just the heat , say Watkins , who urge other people to scrutinize their utility bill so they dont pay more than they should . I want people to be aware , and if their bill do increase , dont just assume it because of the heat , she say . Losonci say the billing error appear sporadic . Its not everybody , she say , suggesting that Edison should be more proactive in reducing problem with the new meter and help customer who receive astronomical bill . Concerns about higher-than-normal utility bill due to inaccurate smart meter , a well a threat to privacy and the effect the wireless device can have on health , have surface nationwide . In addition to bill mistake , some critic believe the meter give company too much control over their customer energy use and emit unhealthy radio frequency signal . Gonzales say representative from Edison have be meet with community organization to address customer apprehension about the smart meter . Jeff Reinhardt , spokesperson for Las Virgenes Municipal Water District , which also use smart meter , say the device have be an asset for his agency . We be find that bill misreads occur less with ( the automate meter ) than with manual reading , Reinhardt say . The new meter have help the district to identify water leak more efficiently and , in recent month , have find leaky swimming pool filter , underground irrigation leak and major leak underneath home , he say . This not only save money for the customer but also result in a significant amount of water save , Reinhardt say . Return to top Copyright 2005-2015 J.Bee NP Publishing , Ltd. , All Rights Reserved . Newspaper web site content management software and service 