Peter 's Evil Overlord List This Evil Overlord List be Copyright 1996-1997 by Peter Anspach . If you enjoy it , feel free to pass it along or post it anywhere , provide that ( 1 ) it be not alter in any way , and ( 2 ) this copyright notice be attach . AN IMPORTANT NOTE REGARDING THE COPYRIGHT : This Evil Overlord List grow out of the exchange on what be now the Star Trek mailing list `` shields-up @ spies.com '' , beginning in 1994 ( when it be still `` startrek @ cs.arizona.edu '' ) . We be kick around cliche that appear on `` Deep Space 9 '' at the time , and I start to compile a list of classic blunder they be make . The list come to about 20 or so item . In 1995 , I decide to try to make it into a Top 100 List . I attach a copyright notice , some friend of mine post it to a few newsgroups , and the contribution quickly pour in . In 1996 I revise the list entry to their current form , the Web page go up , more contribution be solicit , the list expand beyond 100 and I have to open up a dungeon . I continue to contribute item ; my total be around 40 or so . So while I be the originator , editor , and principal contributor , I certainly do not write the majority of the item on the list -- a may be see by the sheer number of individual who be list a contributor . Around 1997 , a the final contribution be come in , a couple contributor mention that this be similar to a list of thing not to do if you capture James Bond that have appear on a sci-fi newsgroup . I 'd never hear of or see this list , so I assume it be parallel development or perhaps something I have inspire . On November 12 , 2002 , I exchange some email with Jack Butler who have a list on his website . Sayeth Mr. Butler : `` This list have it origin on the now-nonexistent FidoNet Science Fiction and Fandom ( SFFAN ) email echo , in a discussion regard a sketch see on an episode of Saturday Night Live sometime in 1990 . In the sketch , several Bond villains be appear on a talkshow tout their new book , `` What Not To Do If You Capture James Bond '' . The discussion on SFFAN be specifically regard what advice might be find in that book . The instigator of the discussion be Alesia Chamness ; other contributor include Jason Welles , Brian R. Williams , Merideth Knepper , and Alexi Vandenburg . I be also one of it contributor . When I originally post this list to the Internet in 1994 , I do so without any awareness of Mr. Anspach , the Star Trek mailing list on which his version of the list appear , or ( late ) his website . '' Apparently both list be compile during overlapping period of time . Comparing the two , some item appear on one list but not the other . Other item appear identical to those on this list ; since many be the result of my write or edit , I believe they be take from this list and post to that list without permission . But other item on that list appear identical to contribution I receive before I edit them . Those item may have be take from that list and submit here under false pretense , or they may have innocently be submit to both list by their originator . It appears that a a result of this `` cross-contamination '' , the two list have arrive at a point where there be variation on each other and it be probably impossible to untangle them . ( I would still like to talk with Alesia Chamness . If you know her , please ask her to email me . ) I believe Jack Butler when he say the list on his website be the current form of the James Bond Villain list , and I thank him for help to clarify matter . Let me state that I have nothing to do with the FidoNet SFFAN list which be firmly in the public domain , and I lay no claim to it . The copyright statement attach to my list applies only to this list , in the form it appear . -- Peter Anspach ( From the User-Friendly Archives ) Attention all Evil Overlord List Aspirants : Contrary to popular belief , take over the universe be not a easy a it would first appear . Due to the complexity of this task , Peter regret that he be currently unable to give the list the attention it deserve . The list be therefore go on a temporary hiatus . This be a temporary condition . As soon a he be able to respond in a timely manner -- or until he become unquestioned lord and master of all thing , whichever come first -- the list will not be update and no new suggestion will be consider . He would sincerely apologize for this inconvenience , be it in character for an Evil Overlord to do so . Being an Evil Overlord seem to be a good career choice . It pay well , there be all sort of perk and you can set your own hour . However every Evil Overlord I 've read about in book or see in movie invariably get overthrown and destroy in the end . I 've notice that no matter whether they be barbarian lord , derange wizard , mad scientist or alien invader , they always seem to make the same basic mistake every single time . With that in mind , allow me to present ... The Top 100 Things I 'd Do If I Ever Became An Evil Overlord My Legions of Terror will have helmet with clear plexiglas visor , not face-concealing one . My ventilation duct will be too small to crawl through . My noble half-brother whose throne I usurp will be kill , not keep anonymously imprison in a forgotten cell of my dungeon . Shooting be not too good for my enemy . The artifact which be the source of my power will not be keep on the Mountain of Despair beyond the River of Fire guard by the Dragons of Eternity . It will be in my safe-deposit box . The same applies to the object which be my one weakness . I will not gloat over my enemy ' predicament before kill them . When I 've capture my adversary and he say , `` Look , before you kill me , will you at least tell me what this be all about ? '' I 'll say , `` No . '' and shoot him . No , on second thought I 'll shoot him then say `` No . '' After I kidnap the beautiful princess , we will be marry immediately in a quiet civil ceremony , not a lavish spectacle in three week ' time during which the final phase of my plan will be carry out . I will not include a self-destruct mechanism unless absolutely necessary . If it be necessary , it will not be a large red button label `` Danger : Do Not Push '' . The big red button mark `` Do Not Push '' will instead trigger a spray of bullet on anyone stupid enough to disregard it . Similarly , the ON/OFF switch will not clearly be label a such . I will not interrogate my enemy in the inner sanctum -- a small hotel well outside my border will work just a well . I will be secure in my superiority . Therefore , I will feel no need to prove it by leave clue in the form of riddle or leave my weaker enemy alive to show they pose no threat . One of my advisor will be an average five-year-old child . Any flaw in my plan that he be able to spot will be correct before implementation . All slain enemy will be cremate , or at least have several round of ammunition empty into them , not leave for dead at the bottom of the cliff . The announcement of their death , a well a any accompanying celebration , will be defer until after the aforementioned disposal . The hero be not entitle to a last kiss , a last cigarette , or any other form of last request . I will never employ any device with a digital countdown . If I find that such a device be absolutely unavoidable , I will set it to activate when the counter reach 117 and the hero be just put his plan into operation . I will never utter the sentence `` But before I kill you , there 's just one thing I want to know . '' When I employ people a advisor , I will occasionally listen to their advice . I will not have a son . Although his laughably under-planned attempt to usurp power would easily fail , it would provide a fatal distraction at a crucial point in time . I will not have a daughter . She would be as beautiful a she be evil , but one look at the hero 's rugged countenance and she 'd betray her own father . Despite it proven stress-relieving effect , I will not indulge in maniacal laughter . When so occupy , it 's too easy to miss unexpected development that a more attentive individual could adjust to accordingly . I will hire a talented fashion designer to create original uniform for my Legions of Terror , a oppose to some cheap knock-offs that make them look like Nazi stormtroopers , Roman footsoldiers , or savage Mongol hordes . All be eventually defeat and I want my troop to have a more positive mind-set . No matter how tempt I be with the prospect of unlimited power , I will not consume any energy field bigger than my head . I will keep a special cache of low-tech weapon and train my troop in their use . That way -- even if the hero manage to neutralize my power generator and/or render the standard-issue energy weapon useless -- my troop will not be overrun by a handful of savage arm with spear and rock . I will maintain a realistic assessment of my strength and weakness . Even though this take some of the fun out of the job , at least I will never utter the line `` No , this can not be ! I AM INVINCIBLE ! ! ! '' ( After that , death be usually instantaneous . ) No matter how well it would perform , I will never construct any sort of machinery which be completely indestructible except for one small and virtually inaccessible vulnerable spot . No matter how attractive certain member of the rebellion be , there be probably someone just a attractive who be not desperate to kill me . Therefore , I will think twice before order a prisoner sent to my bedchamber . I will never build only one of anything important . All important system will have redundant control panel and power supply . For the same reason I will always carry at least two fully load weapon at all time . My pet monster will be keep in a secure cage from which it can not escape and into which I could not accidentally stumble . I will dress in bright and cheery color , and so throw my enemy into confusion . All bumble conjurer , clumsy squire , no-talent bard , and cowardly thieve in the land will be preemptively put to death . My foes will surely give up and abandon their quest if they have no source of comic relief . All naive , busty tavern wench in my realm will be replace with surly , world-weary waitress who will provide no unexpected reinforcement and/or romantic subplot for the hero or his sidekick . I will not fly into a rage and kill a messenger who bring me bad news just to illustrate how evil I really be . Good messenger be hard to come by . I wo n't require high-ranking female member of my organization to wear a stainless-steel bustier . Morale be good with a more casual dress-code . Similarly , outfit make entirely from black leather will be reserve for formal occasion . I will not turn into a snake . It never help . I will not grow a goatee . In the old day they make you look diabolic . Now they just make you look like a disaffected member of Generation X . I will not imprison member of the same party in the same cell block , let alone the same cell . If they be important prisoner , I will keep the only key to the cell door on my person instead of hand out copy to every bottom-rung guard in the prison . If my trust lieutenant tell me my Legions of Terror be lose a battle , I will believe him . After all , he 's my trust lieutenant . If an enemy I have just kill have a young sibling or offspring anywhere , I will find them and have them kill immediately , instead of wait for them to grow up harbor feeling of vengeance towards me in my old age . If I absolutely must ride into battle , I will certainly not ride at the forefront of my Legions of Terror , nor will I seek out my opposite number among his army . I will be neither chivalrous nor sport . If I have an unstoppable superweapon , I will use it a early and a often a possible instead of keep it in reserve . Once my power be secure , I will destroy all those pesky time-travel device . When I capture the hero , I will make sure I also get his dog , monkey , ferret , or whatever sickeningly cute little animal capable of untying rope and filch key happens to follow him around . I will maintain a healthy amount of skepticism when I capture the beautiful rebel and she claim she be attract to my power and good look and will gladly betray her companion if I just let her in on my plan . I will only employ bounty hunter who work for money . Those who work for the pleasure of the hunt tend to do dumb thing like even the odds to give the other guy a sporting chance . I will make sure I have a clear understanding of who be responsible for what in my organization . For example , if my general screw up I will not draw my weapon , point it at him , say `` And here be the price for failure , '' then suddenly turn and kill some random underling . If an advisor say to me `` My liege , he be but one man . What can one man possibly do ? `` , I will reply `` This . '' and kill the advisor . If I learn that a callow youth have begin a quest to destroy me , I will slay him while he be still a callow youth instead of wait for him to mature . I will treat any beast which I control through magic or technology with respect and kindness . Thus if the control be ever break , it will not immediately come after me for revenge . If I learn the whereabouts of the one artifact which can destroy me , I will not send all my troop out to seize it . Instead I will send them out to seize something else and quietly put a Want-Ad in the local paper . My main computer will have their own special operating system that will be completely incompatible with standard IBM and Macintosh powerbooks . If one of my dungeon guard begin express concern over the condition in the beautiful princess ' cell , I will immediately transfer him to a less people-oriented position . I will hire a team of board-certified architect and surveyor to examine my castle and inform me of any secret passage and abandon tunnel that I might not know about . If the beautiful princess that I capture say `` I 'll never marry you ! Never , do you hear me , NEVER ! ! ! `` , I will say `` Oh well '' and kill her . I will not strike a bargain with a demonic be then attempt to double-cross it simply because I feel like be contrary . The deform mutant and odd-ball psychotic will have their place in my Legions of Terror . However before I send them out on important covert mission that require tact and subtlety , I will first see if there be anyone else equally qualify who would attract less attention . My Legions of Terror will be train in basic marksmanship . Any who can not learn to hit a man-sized target at 10 meter will be use for target practice . Before employ any captured artifact or machinery , I will carefully read the owner 's manual . If it become necessary to escape , I will never stop to pose dramatically and toss off a one-liner . I will never build a sentient computer smarter than I be . My five-year-old child advisor will also be ask to decipher any code I be think of use . If he break the code in under 30 second , it will not be use . Note : this also apply to password . If my advisor ask `` Why be you risk everything on such a mad scheme ? `` , I will not proceed until I have a response that satisfy them . I will design fortress hallway with no alcove or protrude structural support which intruder could use for cover in a firefight . Bulk trash will be dispose of in incinerator , not compactors . And they will be keep hot , with none of that nonsense about flame go through accessible tunnel at predictable interval . I will see a competent psychiatrist and get cure of all extremely unusual phobia and bizarre compulsive habit which could prove to be a disadvantage . If I must have computer system with publically available terminal , the map they display of my complex will have a room clearly mark a the Main Control Room . That room will be the Execution Chamber . The actual main control room will be mark a Sewage Overflow Containment . My security keypad will actually be a fingerprint scanner . Anyone who watch someone press a sequence of button or dust the pad for fingerprint then subsequently try to enter by repeating that sequence will trigger the alarm system . No matter how many short we have in the system , my guard will be instruct to treat every surveillance camera malfunction a a full-scale emergency . I will spare someone who save my life sometime in the past . This be only reasonable a it encourage others to do so . However , the offer be good one time only . If they want me to spare them again , they 'd well save my life again . All midwife will be ban from the realm . All baby will be deliver at state-approved hospital . Orphans will be place in foster-homes , not abandon in the wood to be raise by creature of the wild . When my guard split up to search for intruder , they will always travel in group of at least two . They will be train so that if one of them disappear mysteriously while on patrol , the other will immediately initiate an alert and call for backup , instead of quizzically peer around a corner . If I decide to test a lieutenant 's loyalty and see if he/she should be make a trusted lieutenant , I will have a crack squad of marksman stand by in case the answer be no . If all the hero be stand together around a strange device and begin to taunt me , I will pull out a conventional weapon instead of use my unstoppable superweapon on them . I will not agree to let the hero go free if they win a rigged contest , even though my advisor assure me it be impossible for them to win . When I create a multimedia presentation of my plan design so that my five-year-old advisor can easily understand the detail , I will not label the disk `` Project Overlord '' and leave it lie on top of my desk . I will instruct my Legions of Terror to attack the hero en masse , instead of standing around wait while member break off and attack one or two at a time . If the hero run up to my roof , I will not run up after him and struggle with him in an attempt to push him over the edge . I will also not engage him at the edge of a cliff . ( In the middle of a rope-bridge over a river of molten lava be not even worth considering . ) If I have a fit of temporary insanity and decide to give the hero the chance to reject a job a my trust lieutentant , I will retain enough sanity to wait until my current trust lieutenant be out of earshot before make the offer . I will not tell my Legions of Terror `` And he must be take alive ! '' The command will be `` And try to take him alive if it be reasonably practical . '' If my doomsday device happens to come with a reverse switch , a soon a it have be employ it will be melt down and make into limited-edition commemorative coin . If my weakest troop fail to eliminate a hero , I will send out my best troop instead of waste time with progressively strong one a he get close and close to my fortress . If I be fight with the hero atop a moving platform , have disarm him , and am about to finish him off and he glance behind me and drop flat , I too will drop flat instead of quizzically turn around to find out what he saw . I will not shoot at any of my enemy if they be stand in front of the crucial support beam to a heavy , dangerous , unbalance structure . If I 'm eat dinner with the hero , put poison in his goblet , then have to leave the table for any reason , I will order new drink for both of u instead of try to decide whether or not to switch with him . I will not have captive of one sex guard by member of the opposite sex . I will not use any plan in which the final step be horribly complicate , e.g . `` Align the 12 Stones of Power on the sacred altar then activate the medallion at the moment of total eclipse . '' Instead it will be more along the line of `` Push the button . '' I will make sure that my doomsday device be up to code and properly ground . My vat of hazardous chemical will be cover when not in use . Also , I will not construct walkway above them . If a group of henchman fail miserably at a task , I will not berate them for incompetence then send the same group out to try the task again . After I capture the hero 's superweapon , I will not immediately disband my legion and relax my guard because I believe whoever hold the weapon be unstoppable . After all , the hero hold the weapon and I take it from him . I will not design my Main Control Room so that every workstation be face away from the door . I will not ignore the messenger that stumble in exhaust and obviously agitate until my personal grooming or current entertainment be finish . It might actually be important . If I ever talk to the hero on the phone , I will not taunt him . Instead I will say this his dog perseverance have give me new insight on the futility of my evil way and that if he leave me alone for a few month of quiet contemplation I will likely return to the path of righteousness . ( Heroes be incredibly gullible in this regard . ) If I decide to hold a double execution of the hero and an underling who fail or betray me , I will see to it that the hero be schedule to go first . When arrest prisoner , my guard will not allow them to stop and grab a useless trinket of purely sentimental value . My dungeon will have it own qualify medical staff complete with bodyguard . That way if a prisoner become sick and his cellmate tell the guard it 's an emergency , the guard will fetch a trauma team instead of open up the cell for a look . My door mechanism will be design so that blast the control panel on the outside seal the door and blast the control panel on the inside open the door , not vice versa . My dungeon cell will not be furnish with object that contain reflective surface or anything that can be unravel . If an attractive young couple enters my realm , I will carefully monitor their activity . If I find they be happy and affectionate , I will ignore them . However if circumstance have force them together against their will and they spend all their time bicker and criticize each other except during the intermittent occasion when they be save each others ' life at which point there be hint of sexual tension , I will immediately order their execution . Any data file of crucial importance will be pad to 1.45Mb in size . Finally , to keep my subject permanently lock in a mindless trance , I will provide each of them with free unlimited Internet access . Of course , these be merely the Top 100 Things I 'd do . Other suggestion have be send to me which do n't quite make the Top 100 List . But they be still so good that I could n't bear to throw them out . Therefore , a an expression of gratitude , I have toss them into ... and This web page have be give the following award : Cruel Site of the Day for Friday , December 13 , 1996 . Worst of the Web for Wednesday , May 21 , 1997 . Things To Do If Bored for Monday , September 8 , 1997 . This page have also be add to the index of Fun Reading at The Mining Company < http : //scifibooks.miningco.com/ > . An award from the The Enlightenment Zone If you have any other tidbit of advice that you would like to contribute to this list -- you 're too late ! The list be full . However there be still plenty of room leave in The Dungeon : Cellblock B . Feel free to e-mail me with your advice or visit the Evil Overlord Homepage at http : //world.std.com/~olorin/peter_overlord.html . ( Suggestion may be summarily reject or edit without your permission . What do you expect from an EVIL Overlord ? ) I wish to thank the follow contributor to this list who , if I ever happen to become an Evil Overlord , will be name a lieutenant -- but not trust lieutenant -- in my Legions of Terror : Peter Ashen < pash @ netspace.net.au > Vance Atkins < glacier @ nwlink.com > David Borcherding < lestat @ one.net > Ian Bell < ibell @ cix.compulink.co.uk > Devon Black < magedoug @ isu.edu > Bill Campbell < bcamp23 @ airmail.net > Torgeir Christiansen < torgeir.christiansen @ fys.uio.no > Paul Dietrich < paulmd @ efn.org > Mario Di Giacomo < mdg @ ids.net > Chris Dunham < chameleo @ ebtech.net > Jon Fowlkes < jon @ ahcg.com > Tony Gowland < ag120 @ york.ac.uk > James Grannon < JGRANNON @ mail.starledger.com > Ward Griffiths < gram @ cnct.com > Dave Harper < dharper @ mustang.uwo.ca > Paul J. Henry < clyde @ moose.org > Julie Helmer < AnnieKey @ aol.com > Greg Huffman < huffmang @ gsg.eds.com > Lynn Irwin < jalyn @ nanosecond.com > Curtis M Johnson < Curtis_M_Johnson @ celcorp.com > Noah Johnson < streak @ well.com > Ramin Kamal < ramin @ sidefx.com > Edmund Kao < kao @ cems.umn.edu > SEK < SKemp @ formmaker.com > Terran Lane < terran @ ecn.purdue.edu > Bill Lee < bill_lee @ qmgate.corp.apple.com > Michael Lorton < mlorton @ microsoft.com > Mike Marano < profmike @ dnai.com > Christy Marx < moonfire @ cybergate.com > Andy Mcdermott < andymc @ paragon.co.uk > David Mcelfresh < dmcelfre+ @ pitt.edu > Angus McIntyre < angus @ pobox.com > Kevin Meehan < kaliban @ ix.netcom.com > Meteor < sirius @ fl.net.au > Pete Meyers ( Wasser ) < a-petem @ microsoft.com > Mark Minisi < ccs473 @ webspan.net > Eric Minton < minton @ planet.earthcom.net > Jesse Mundis < jesse @ Internex.NET > CL Murphy < CL @ ncgwpc.syntellect.com > Mark Musante < olorin @ world.std.com > Sunil Narayan < anara 