Pool Pumps | APG Solar Skip to Content Skip to Navigation kW Installed to date : ON GRID:3,118 OFF GRID:97 About APG The Team Employment Opportunities Solutions Alternative Energy Solar Electric Solar Hot Water Wind Generation Engineering Installation Operations and Maintenance Pool Pumps Our Projects Solar $ ense Economics & Incentives Frequently Asked Questions Types of Solar Benefits of Solar Contact Home > | > Solutions > | > Pool Pumps Pool Pumps [ View ] Energy Saving Options Variable Speed Pumps Versatility and performance best describe Centurys new V-Green variable speed pump motor with integrated timer . Capable of delivering superior energy saving of over 80 % versus a standard single-speed motor , V-Green motor be well suit for pump application range from 3/4 - 2.7 total horsepower ( THP ) . Spurred by consumer interest in energy-saving product and government-mandated efficiency standard , the innovative V-Green variable speed ECM offer premium efficiency boost by such feature a Power Factor Correction , which raise overall efficiency while reduce input amp ! The state-of-art user interface ensures program ease and flexibility , with on-screen navigation , ergonomic selector switch , and pre-set program for out-of-the-box operation . CenturysV-Green be Title 20** compliant and with three user-defined variable speed be a superb choice for reducing energy consumption , for lowering overall pool ownership cost , and for satisfying regulatory requirement . ** Californias Title 20 legislation state that pump > 1HP ( total ) must be 2-speed or variable speed , and must have a control to default to low speed ( i.e . timer ) Features Integrated Timer Interface On- and Off-Board Mountable Interface Timer Mode Manual Mode Freeze Protection Auxiliary Load Capacity Configurable Prime Settings Noise Reduction Design Adjustable Contrast Power Factor Correction Factory Reset Battery Backup - Program Saver LCD Display with Backlight Ball Bearing TEFC Rotation : CCWPE Single Phase 303 Stainless Steel Shaft Class F Insulation 50C Ambient UV and Rain-Proof Enclosure Slash pump energy use by up to 90 % , save hundred per year Standard pool pump can consume as much energy a all other home appliance combinedoften cost more than $ 1,000 per year ! IntelliFlo and IntelliPro Variable Speed pump can typically cut energy use up to 90 % , generally save up to $ 1,500 in utility cost annuallymore where rate be high than average . * Exclusive , advance motor technology typically provide base saving of 30 % IntelliFlo and IntelliPro pump use an exclusive permanent magnet motor ( use in hybrid car ) in place of a traditional induction motor . Permanent magnet motor be fundamentally more energy efficient and provide a typical base energy saving of 30 % . Onboard intelligence with variable drive can deliver additional saving up to 90 % Pentair VS Variable speed capability , digital control , and proprietary software that allow custom programming of optimum pump speed for specific tasksfiltering , heating , clean , spa jet , waterfall , etc . The result be additional energy saving ... up to 90 % compare to even so-called high efficiency , single-speed , two-speed and multi-speed pump that can not be adjust . For virtually all application , the optimum speed will be low than the preset , unchangeable speed of old pump . Using slow speed take advantage of a fundamental pump law : slow be far more efficient . In fact , when pump speed be reduce by half , energy consumption be just one-eighth of what be previously use . The quiet pump ever build The exclusive permanent magnet motor that be so critical for energy saving be also a totally enclose fan cool ( TEFC ) design . This combination , along with slow operate speed , be responsible for IntelliPro and IntelliFlo pump be the quiet pump you can install . At typical speed you can barely hear them operate . Longer trouble-free service life than conventional pump Advanced motor produce far less heat and vibration than traditional induction motor for dramatically long equipment life . TEFC design protects against all threat pose by an outdoor environment . Features built-in diagnostics that detect and correct condition that cause premature failure , thereby protect against overheat , freeze and voltage irregularity . IntelliFlo VF also detect loss of prime . New Model with Added Safety Features IntelliFlo VS+SVRS pump be the first pump with an integrated Safety Vacuum Release System ( SVRS ) , which provide an important layer of entrapment protection . Its built-in controller and proprietary software detect blockage of the drain and automatically turn the pump off within second . Home About APG Solutions Alternative Energy Engineering Installation Operations and Maintenance Pool Pumps Our Projects Solar $ ense Contact APG Solar - 2339 North Buhach Road - Atwater , California 95301 - Fax ( 209 ) 676-4646 office ( 209 ) 358-1468 cell ( 209 ) 658-0814 - info @ apgsolar.com 