Smart Meters , Dumb Science|David H. Bailey View mobile site March 5 , 2015 Huffpost Science Edition : U.S . Show/Hide Brasil BR Canada CA Deutschland DE Espaa ES France FR ( Greece ) GR India IN Italia IT ( Japan ) JP ( Korea ) KR Maghreb MG United Kingdom UK United States US Follow Newsletters Get ScienceNewsletters Email address Enter Email Address Huffington Post Search Search The Huffington Post Enter Search Terms Submit Search iOS app Android app More Desktop Alerts Log in Create Account $ USERNAME Desktop Notifications Profile Settings Logout FRONT PAGE Politics Supreme Court Obamacare Arguments Offer Small Hints Of Outcome 0 Ben Carson : Being Gay Is 'Absolutely ' A Choice 1K U.S . Ambassador To South Korea Injured In Attack By Man With Blade 0 Hillary Clinton Ran Homebrew Computer System For Official Emails 840 DOJ Issues Damning Report On Ferguson Police , Courts 0 Go to Politics More in Politics Pollster Politics Blog Off The Bus Election Maps Pollster You Might Also Like WorldPost Green Black Voices Latino Voices Gay Voices Business Here Are The Top 10 Part-Time Jobs For 2015 9 Etsy Files For $ 100 Million IPO , Does n't Seem So Cutesy Anymore 40 Kanye West Rails Against Class Divisions 100 How I Stay Awake At Work Without Drinking Coffee 32 2 Ways McDonald 's 'Quick Fix ' Antibiotics Move Falls Short 24 Go to Business More in Business Small Biz Money You Might Also Like WorldPost Tech Media Arts Sports Weird News Smarter Ideas Urban Progress Entertainment 10 True Crime Documentaries You Need To Watch On Netflix 16 Kate Upton Slips Into A Leather Skirt 7 Prince 's Middle School Basketball Photo Is Just The Best 15 Kelly Clarkson Will Not Be Fat Shamed 126 Helen Mirren Looks Absolutely Fabulous In A Sheer , Glittering Dress 25 Go to Entertainment More in Entertainment Celebrity TV You Might Also Like Comedy Arts Books Food Style Weird News Moviefone Arts How The World Of Crime Photography Has Changed Since 1920 0 Very Naked Artist And Equally Naked Baby Visit A Museum 10 Dustin Yellin Is Shredding $ 10,000 For The Sake Of Art , And It 's Pretty Damn Beautiful 11 The Oscars Of The GIF World Needs You 0 Meet Hilary Knight , The Illustrator Who Brought To Life The World Of Eloise 1 Go to Arts More in Arts Painting Film Design Photography Theater Architecture You Might Also Like Books NY Los Angeles Tech Passwords Are Terrible -- And These Companies Want To Kill Them 0 Microsoft Co-Founder Says He Found A Sunken WWII Warship 18 HBO May Be Teaming Up With Apple For New 'HBO Now ' Streaming Service 0 Apple Has Reportedly Beaten Samsung In Global Smartphone Sales 92 BlackBerry Unveils New Smartphone : BlackBerry Leap 15 Go to Tech More in Tech TEDWeekends Social Media You Might Also Like Small Biz Green Science NY SF Smarter Ideas TechCrunch Engadget Green About This Photo Of A Baby Weasel Flying On A Woodpecker ... 129 The Inventor Of Keurig K-Cups Is Feeling Pretty Guilty Right Now 0 March Snow Storm Heads East 15 Baby Tortoises Born On Galapagos Island For The First Time In A Century 20 Dramatic Rescue Shows Sometimes Humans Do Right By Elephants 0 Go to Green More in Green Energy Climate Change Animals Green Tech Green Holiday You Might Also Like Politics Food WorldPost Science Healthy Living Taste The 20 Most Popular Beers In America 40 Brace Yourself . Free Cone Day At Dairy Queen Is March 16 5 The Trick To Saving Money AND Eating Healthier 14 These Stunning Photos Reveal The Surprising Source Of America 's Lettuce 18 The Dinner Recipe Your State Googles The Most 33 Go to Taste More in Taste Recipes Baking Entertaining Healthy Eating Taste Tests Thanksgiving You Might Also Like Food Healthy Living Travel OWN Education Weathering Calm and Stormy Seas : Leadership Tips From Captain Phillips 0 Go to Education More in Education Education Reform Teachers Bullying Ed-Lection 2012 Financial Education You Might Also Like College Teen Impact Parents Healthy Living Weird News Lion Opens Car Door At Safari Park ; Family Loses It 0 Mt . Everest Is Covered In Human Poop , And That 's a Problem : Offical 122 Is The Moon Hollow ? And What Creatures Are Living Inside ? 0 Neighbor Blows Snow In Face Of Man Trying To Clear Woman 's Sidewalk : Cops 0 Fugitive Arrested After Commenting On Sheriff 's Facebook Page 24 Go to Weird News More in Weird News Dumb Crime UFOs World Records Anatomical Wonders Zombie Apocalypse Octomom You Might Also Like Comedy Tech Science Crime HuffPost Live Next Top Stories For Friday , March 6 Next 'In Deep Shift ' Michael Bernard Beckwith Tomorrow Actor Wendell Pierce LIVE Tomorrow World Brief With @ CaroMT Tomorrow Actor & Director Kenneth Branagh LIVE Go to Huffpost Live All Sections News Politics WorldPost Business Small Business Money Media Sports Education Crime Weird News Good News Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Comedy Arts & Culture Books TV Life & Style Healthy Living GPS for the Soul Style Home Taste Weddings Travel Parents Divorce Huff/Post 50 Marlo Thomas OWN Dr. Phil Tech & Science Tech Science Green Code Voices Women Black Voices Latino Voices Voces ( en espaol ) Gay Voices Religion College Teen Impact Local Chicago DC Denver Detroit Hawaii Los Angeles Miami New York San Francisco Our Mobile Apps : iOS Android HuffPost Live ( iOS ) GPS For The Soul ( iOS ) GPS For The Soul ( Android ) Science Asteroids Brain Dinosaurs Girls In STEM Human Origins ISS Mars Rover Physics Search For E.T . Spaceflight Talk Nerdy To Me Weird Science THE BLOG Featuring fresh take and real-time analysis from HuffPost 's signature lineup of contributor Hot on the Blog Sen. Patrick Leahy Mark Cuban Sarah Brown Richard Branson David H. Bailey Become a fan Lawrence Berkeley National Lab ( retire ) and University of California , Davis Email Jonathan M. Borwein Become a fan Laureate Professor of Mathematics , University of Newcastle , Australia Email Smart Meters , Dumb Science Posted : 02/28/2013 12:23 pm EST Updated : 04/30/2013 5:12 am EDT Share Tweet Email Comment tumblr stumble reddit On February 21 , 2013 , the city council of Sebastopol , California ( a small suburb north of San Francisco ) adopt a resolution attempt to ban the installation of smart meter by Pacific Gas and Electric , claim that the device pose `` potential risk to the health , safety and welfare of Sebastopol resident . '' In taking this measure , Sebastpol official follow the lead of Marin County ( hardly a traditional bastion of conservative pseudoscience ) , which in 2011 pass a similar resolution . To date , PG & E have ignore both , claim that only California 's Public Utilities Commission have jurisdiction in the matter , but debate continue at several level . Those promote these ban cite health risk . Some claim `` electromagnetic hypersensitivity , '' or in other word that radiation from device such a smart meter cause dizziness , fatigue , headaches , seizure , memory loss or other malady . Others claim that smart meter cause cancer . Similar episode have occur in the UK , Canada and elsewhere , but on this a with many similar issue , pseudoscience be make the great inroad in the United States . Scientific fact So what be the scientific fact here ? To begin with , smart meter use basically the same wireless technology a cell phone . The FCC , after review many scientific study , have set wireless radiation standard , with which all manufacturer of smart meter easily comply . The frequency of cellular technology microwave radiation corresponds to a wavelength of approximately 30 centimeter , or roughly one foot . This wavelength be thousand of time large than structure in the brain responsible for mental process , and so claim that wireless radiation can cause malady such a `` dizziness '' or `` memory loss '' be absurd . But what about other claim of smart meter health effect ? What about claim of cancer ? Here again , the scientific evidence be quite clear . In 2010 , a 13-nation study commission by the World Health Organization find at most a very minimal and partially contradictory link between cancer risk and heavy cell-phone usage . Along this line , concern that cell phone usage by pregnant mother endangers their fetus be wildly exaggerate . It be also instructive to compare the radiation level of smart meter with those of other wireless device . Smart meter only transmit data for roughly 1.4 second per day , at very low wattage . And even if one stand less than one meter ( 3 foot ) from a smart meter when it broadcast it data , the result microwave exposure be 550 time less than standing in front of an active microwave oven , and 1100 time less than hold an active cell phone to one 's ear . But even these reckoning be extremely conservative , because no one spend his or her life camp within three foot of a smart meter . Instead , such device be typically on the outside of a residence , many foot from human . Thus , give the incontestable law that microwave intensity decrease a the square of distance from the source , this mean that exposure from smart meter be hundred or thousand of time less than the figure in the previous paragraph . Indeed , 20-year exposure to radiation from smart meter be no great than a single 30-minute cell phone call . Several high-level governmental body have sponsor blue-ribbon panel to study the issue , but have find no cause for concern . As a 2011 report by the California Council on Science and Technology concludes , `` Exposure level from smart meter be well below the [ FCC 's established standard ] for such [ health ] effect , '' and `` There be no evidence that additional standard be need to protect the public from smart meter . '' With regard to cell phone , in a 2008 Congressional hearing , Robert Hoover ( Director of the National Cancer institute 's Epidemiology and Biostatistics Program ) , declare that the effect of cell phone radiation `` appear to be insufficient to produce genetic damage typically associate with develop cancer . '' Numerous other study be summarize at the National Cancer Institute website , which find `` no appreciable link between cell phone use and cancer of the brain , nerve , or other tissue of the head and neck . '' The NCI do recommend additional research , because cellular technology be change , but find no reason for major concern . Summary In short , the health risk to radiation by smart meter be hundred or thousand of time less than that of cell phone usage , which in turn be so small a to be barely measurable even in large multi-nation study ( if it exist at all ) . So why do people still oppose smart meter ? Are they ignorant of the scientific fact ? At the very least , both leader and follower of the anti-smart meter movement be be inconsistent . After all , if they truly be convince that microwave radiation constitute a material threat to good health , even at extremely low level , then they should : Not even carry , much less use , a cell phone , smart phone or tablet . Not permit anyone else come to their residence to carry or use a cell phone , smart phone or tablet . Avoid Bluetooth technology for earphone , printer and computer mouse . Not visit any business establishment ( almost all ) that have public or private WiFi in use . Not visit any business establishment ( almost all ) that permit customer to carry or operate cell phone . Needless to say , we hardly expect that the opponent of smart meter in upper-middle-class Marin County will stop shop , toss their cell phone , quit connect their laptop to WiFi , or discontinue regular lunch with friend at local WiFi-enabled cafe . Nor do we expect them to discontinue drive , which be many thousand of time more dangerous , or to give up bad habit , such a smoking or heavy drinking , that be far more dangerous still . And therein lie the problem -- opponent of smart meter be either massively uninformed a to the scientific risk relative to other form of risk in daily life , or else they be be highly disingenuous . Either way , it do not speak well for the level of scientific education worldwide that such movement can gain traction with the public . We can only hope that the broad press will challenge these movement and portray them in their true light . More : Sebastopol Wireless Radiation Smart Meters Radiation Smart Meters RADIATION EXPOSURE Suggested For You FOLLOW HUFFPOST Email Email Address Please check the checkbox to indicate your consent Options The Morning Email Science Get top story and blog post email to me each day.. Facebook HuffPost Science Twitter HuffPost Follow Science Follow Google Plus HuffPost Science RSS Most Popular on HuffPost Latest News Science All RSS / Feeds Phone Available on the App Store Android App on Google Play Get it at Blackberry App World Search The Huffington Post Enter Search Terms Submit Search Advertise Log In Make HuffPost your Home Page RSS Careers FAQ User Agreement Privacy Comment Policy About Us About Our Ads Contact Us Copyright 2015 TheHuffingtonPost.com , Inc . `` The Huffington Post '' be a register trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com , Inc. All right reserve . Part of AOL Tech Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story . Notify message * Required * * * What kind of error be this ? Choose an option Factual or typographical Comment moderation problem Rights and permission Other * What be the correction ? 0 count Describe the error here ( 1,000 character limit ) * Type the word below so we know you be not a cyborg Sign me up for The Morning Email 