Using A Toaster Oven | ThriftyFun Browse Crafts , Recipes , Tips , & Guides Contests Enter Contests Share & Vote Get Advice Submit a Question Search Share | Newsletters | Account | About Browse > Contests > Ask > Share > Newsletters > Account > About > Browse ThriftyFun Better Living Budget & Finance Business and Legal Christmas Computers Consumer Advice Crafts Education Entertainment Food and Recipes Garage Sales Gardening Health & Beauty Holidays and Parties Home and Garden Home Improvement Make Your Own Organizing Parenting Pets Photos Recipes ThriftyFun FAQ Travel and Recreation Weddings Using A Toaster Oven 0 0 Email Follow Electricity can be save by using a small oven . This guide be about use a toaster oven . Ad 1 Solution Share 2 Questions Ask 0 Photos Share Related Solutions : Using A Toaster Oven Share a Solution Read and rate the best solution below by giving them a `` thumb up '' . Tip : Use Toaster Oven For Meals To save money on your power bill - use a toaster/convection oven to cook your meal and for your baking whenever possible . Mine will hold an 8x8 pan and have two rack . It keep the kitchen cool a well . By Annie 0 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Give a `` thumb up '' to the solution that work the best ! Do you have a good solution ? Click here to share it ! Questions Ask a Question Here be question relate to Using A Toaster Oven . Question : Using a Toaster Oven I never think I have a need for a toaster oven before , but I finally get one . I know my question will sound stupid to exist user , so please excuse me . When make regular toast on the wire rack , should n't both side brown ? Also , a lot of freeze dinner ( Hungry Man , for example ) list 2 cook method , conventional oven and microwave . Is a toaster oven consider to be a conventional oven , and therefore able to cook this freeze dinner ? Thanks ! By Lawrence Ad Report Most Recent Answer By Sandi [ 6 ] 10/12/2010 I have a small toaster oven which be fine for cook chicken , pork chop , meatloaf , or casserole . It use less energy than my electric oven . Just make sure the food do not touch the heating element . I use the temperature require for the recipe and just use less time . For two people this work great , and in the summer , who want to heat their kitchen ? I be sure you could go online for recipe , too . It 's a great tool ! Read 5 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven Which us less energy , a toaster oven or a regular electric kitchen stove oven ? By Ralph from Del Rio , TX Ad Report Most Recent Answer By Louise B . [ 5 ] 09/14/2010 A toaster oven us less . Read 1 Answer Follow Email Print Feedback Forum Share Feedback Feedback about this article be post here . Want to contribute ? Click above to post feedback . Archives Thrifty Fun have be around so long that many of our page have be reset several time . Archives be old version of the page and the feedback that be provide then . Archive : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven I be throw around an idea of get a Brivelle Toaster Oven . Would this be cheap to run than my electric oven ? I use this even for just my self . I do n't really know very much about these new toaster oven . I do have one about 40 year ago . The plug get hot , so I stop use it and put it out for junk . Any help appreciate . By Joan from Girard , PA RE : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven Toaster ovens have change a lot through the year . Ours be about 10 year old and the newer one now have improve so much since then . Since they only have to heat a small area they would use a lot less energy than a regular oven . Especially if you be just cook for yourself . They also do n't heat the house up in the summer like regular oven . I do n't know about the Breville brand you mention , but just look it up quickly and it look very nice . Our last toaster oven do not have a removable crumb tray and I miss that . Also they be make a lot smaller back then and ours do not have the clearance height to cook certain thing or in certain baking dish so take that into consideration . ( 02/21/2010 ) By Kaelle RE : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven A regular oven run at about 7500 watt and a typical toaster oven run at about 1500 watt . Watts be measure in the output or usage in an hour so imagine that a full size electric oven be about the same per hour a run 75 qty 100 watt bulb . A toaster oven be like run 15 qty 100 watt bulb in an hour . If you look at the number , that 's approximately an 80 % saving on electric usage when you use a basic toaster oven . It will vary of course for different product , but if you have small item that do n't require the space , a toaster oven will save you money in the long run . ( 02/22/2010 ) By COflower RE : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven I use my toaster oven quite often . It be much more convenient , the kitchen do n't get heat up , and accord to the other post it save energy ! I would highly recommend it . ( My toaster oven be a $ 30 Farberware and it be great . ) ( 02/25/2010 ) By mindy l RE : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven You might want to ask at the group , `` Kitchen Appliances and Recipes '' ( KAAR ) http : //www.groups.Yahoo.com/group/KitchenAppliancesandRecipes ( 02/25/2010 ) By Linda : o ) RE : Energy Usage of a Toaster Oven vs . Conventional Electric Oven I purchase a toaster oven over a year ago mainly to try and cut down on our utility bill . It be a WalMart brand and be less than $ 50.00 . I use it often for most anything that I would use my regular oven for cooking . Meatloaf , chicken , and especially casseroles . Baked french fry , etc . I try bake cooky in it and be not please with the result . Why heat up the entire kitchen and large oven when the small one work fine ? Oh yes , it will hold a 12 inch pizza . ( 02/25/2010 ) By banty Food and Recipes Food Tips Kitchen Tools August 31 , 2012 Free Newsletters Email : Related Guides Cleaning a Toaster Oven Making Cookies in a Toaster Oven Cleaning a Toaster Removing Bread Stuck in a Toaster Cleaning Melted Plastic From a Toaster Toaster Product Reviews Related Posts Using a Toaster Oven When Should I Replace My Large and Small Appliances ? Toaster Oven Recipes Cleaning Melted Varnish Off Toaster Oven Sales on Registered or Wanted Items Keeping Baked Potatoes Hot Food and Recipes Food Tips Kitchen Tools August 31 , 2012 Related Guides Cleaning a Toaster Oven Making Cookies in a Toaster Oven Cleaning a Toaster Removing Bread Stuck in a Toaster Cleaning Melted Plastic From a Toaster Toaster Product Reviews Related Posts Using a Toaster Oven When Should I Replace My Large and Small Appliances ? Toaster Oven Recipes Cleaning Melted Varnish Off Toaster Oven Sales on Registered or Wanted Items Keeping Baked Potatoes Hot 1997-2015 by Cumuli , Inc. All Rights Reserved . Published by ThriftyFun . Page generate on January 28 , 2015 at 8:56:45 PM on 10.0.1.228 in 11 second . Use of this web site constitute acceptance of ThriftyFun's Disclaimer and Privacy Policy . If you have any problem or suggestion feel free to 