Household Energy Use Household Energy Use This be an active graphic . Click on any energy use for detail . When the need to conserve energy in your house be consider , then the focus should be mainly on heating and cool process . They be the major us of energy . Hot water heating be also a sizable use of energy , a be the cooking process with surface unit and oven . The use of energy by a refrigerator be significant , and the lighting process for a whole house become a significant energy use . Electronic appliance on the whole use a small amount of energy , and be not a major part of energy conservation initiatives . Comment on energy cost Energy unit Table of insulation R-values Index Heat transfer concept Heat transfer example HyperPhysics ***** Thermodynamics R Nave Go Back Electric Hot Water Heater Commonly use electric water heater in the U.S. use an electric resistance element to heat water directly . Some commercial water heater employ the heat pump principle and be therefore more efficient by perhaps a factor of three , but they be not available in the residential market . Sometimes electric utility company , in overenthusiastic marketing strategy , claim almost 100 % efficiency for these water heater . This be mislead because of the thermal bottleneck at the electric power plant ; about three unit of primary fuel be use to produce a unit of deliver electric energy , so the real efficiency be more like 33 % . Natural gas water heater at 60-70 % efficiency be then about twice a efficient in the use of energy resource a the electric water heater . The energy necessary to heat water be determine by the specific heat of water : c water = 1 calorie/gm C = 4186 J/kgC = 1 BTU/lb F A typical U.S. residential water heater will be take a one which have a capacity of 40 U.S. gallon ( = 320 pound , 145 kg , 151 liter ) . The typical heating range will be take to be from 60 F to 140 F ( 15.6 C to 60 C ) . The energy require to heat the water can be determine from the specific heat relationship . Q = cmT The energy require to heat one tank of water over the specify range be then ( 1 BTU/lb F ) ( 320 lb ) ( 140F - 60 F ) = 25,600 BTU or ( 4186 J/kgC ) ( 145 kg ) ( 60 C - 15.6 C ) = 26.9 million Joules Since a kilowatt-hour be 3.6 million Joules , this energy amount to about 7.5 kWh of electricity . Taking an electric energy cost of 9.5/kWh , it would cost about 71 to heat one tank of hot water with an electric hot water heater assume all the electric energy went into heating the water . If you use gallon of hot water and your electricity rate be /kWh then your energy cost will be $ Comment on energy cost Energy unit Household energy use Index Heat transfer concept Heat transfer example HyperPhysics ***** Thermodynamics R Nave Go Back Household Lighting Although there be a large number of light option , the majority of light in home be do by either incandescent or fluorescent light . Fluorescent lighting have a conside 