Five Common Misconceptions About Power Toothbrushes - Registered Dental Hygienist POWERED BY THE DENTISTRY NETWORK ABOUT CONTACT NEWSLETTERS ADVERTISE SUBMISSIONS Hello Logout Login or Register use SUBSCRIBE BLOGS FREE SAMPLES Home Privacy Policy Site Map Blogs Subscribe Terms & Conditions Advertise Policy eNL Archives About Us Contact Us Current Issue Archives Dental Hygiene RDH Products Digital Magazine Subscribe Mobile Home Privacy Policy Site Map Blogs Subscribe Terms & Conditions Advertise Policy eNL Archives About Us Contact Us Current Issue Archives Dental Hygiene RDH Products Digital Magazine Subscribe Mobile > Home Five Common Misconceptions About Power Toothbrushes Five Common Misconceptions About Power Toothbrushes Your patient be ask ... Do you have up-to-the-minute information to respond to their question about power toothbrush ? Several misconception still abound . Heres what you need to know to separate fact from fiction ... P ower toothbrush have be available for decade , but only recently have see explosive growth , now account for about 40 percent of all toothbrush sale . A quick scan of your local drugstore aisle reveals a large and confuse array of choice . No doubt many of your patient have try them , or want to try them , yet how much do they - and you - really know about the current generation of power brush ? Can you confidently guide your patient when they ask about effectiveness , safety , and which brush be right for them ? Read on to learn about the research that will help you dispel outdated or inaccurate information about power toothbrush . Misconception No . 1 : Theres no real difference in plaque removal between manual toothbrush and power toothbrush . Reality : Every hygienist know thorough plaque removal be essential for optimal oral health , and research have show this can be achieve with use of a manual toothbrush and good brushing technique . But in the early 1960s , consumer be give an alternative toothbrushing option with the introduction of electric toothbrush . Research on the plaque removal effectiveness of these bulky , expensive , early model be inconclusive , lead most dental professional to shy away from recommend them to patient . Fast forward to 2005 , and the picture have change dramatically . The electric toothbrush have evolve into the power toothbrush , encompass the high price rechargeable model a well a the low cost battery-powered toothbrush . Brush head and bristle design be more advanced , base on oscillating/translating , vibrate , or ultrasonic technology . A wealth of new research - with a few exception - support that the current generation of power brush remove more plaque than manual toothbrush in a variety of clinical trial model . These study have be well design , meaning that participant be randomly assign to either the power or manual toothbrush group , brush regimen be standardize , and plaque examination be perform by a clinical grader unaware of what type of toothbrush be use . Importantly , these study produce relatively consistent conclusion . Because manual toothbrush differ in their ability to remove plaque , a multitude of brush from different manufacturer and with vary head and bristle configuration have be test relative to power toothbrush . In general , manual brush be inferior to the power toothbrushes for plaque control . Even the most sophisticated of design with manual toothbrush remove significantly less plaque than battery power toothbrush . What plaque removal benefit have be clinically observe when compare manual toothbrush to power toothbrush ? A sample of study result from various sector of the power brush market reveals similarity : Powered toothbrush , whether power by battery or one of the more upscale version , provide anywhere from 10 to 49 percent great plaque removal than manual brush in single-use trial . Click here to enlarge image A comprehensive review by the independent Cochrane Collaboration of 29 clinical trial conduct over 37 year and include over 2,500 participant find that rotational oscillation power toothbrush remove an average of up to 11 percent more plaque than the manual toothbrush . None of the battery-power toothbrush now market be include in this 2001 review . Misconception No . 2 : There be a high incidence of gingival injury , tooth abrasion and gum recession with power toothbrush when compare to manual brush . Reality : The design of the power toothbrush head , it portability ( such a cord and charger ) and the softness of the bristle contribute to the ease of use , effectiveness , and safety of the current brush . One advantage of power toothbrush be that significantly less force be need to effectively remove plaque than be require for manual toothbrush . Evidence suggest that the force use with power toothbrush be in the 80 to190 g/f range , compare to force in excess of 250 g/f with manual brush . The finding from these study suggest that power toothbrush be less likely to cause dental and gingival abrasion . Three study look at the number of gingival abrasion that occur with the use of the Braun/Sonicare power toothbrush . No damage be report follow the use of any of these power toothbrush . Click here to enlarge image More recently , several study be conduct to test the safety of the battery power toothbrush , such a the Crest SpinBrush and the Colgate Actibrush , and a manual brush find that all three brush be well-tolerated by 82 percent of participant . The result also demonstrate that the power toothbrushes be less injurious to the oral soft tissue than the manual brush . The result of another study indicate that two battery power toothbrush be as safe on hard and soft intraoral tissue a the manual toothbrush . Finally , a four-week safety study involve 140 subject be conduct at Tufts University to compare a low-cost power toothbrush to two manual brush . The result demonstrate no significant difference between the group , suggest that the power toothbrush be at least a safe a two lead manual toothbrush . Findings of several short-term safety study reveal there be no more risk for gingival abrasion or recession with a power toothbrush than with a manual toothbrush . Few longer-term safety study have be conduct on power brush . A longitudinal study compare the Interplak counter-rotational brush to a manual toothbrush assess the occurrence of gingival abrasion and gingival recession over a 12-month period . At the conclusion , the occurrence of gingival recession be not a factor in either group . Probing depth generally remain stable and no significant difference be find . The bristle of the power toothbrush be show to be as gentle a the manual brush . Few area of gingival injury be find and complaint from subject be minor . What make this study stand out be not only the 12 month duration , but also the three-minute controlled brushing time use . Misconception No . 3 : Power toothbrush be only suit for special patient population . Reality : Extensive research have demonstrate that power toothbrush have many advantage over manual toothbrush for specific population , include orthodontic patient , person with impaired dexterity , child and adolescent , patient with hard to access area such a dental implant , and periodontal patient with low home-care compliance . For example , patient with fix orthodontic bracket who face the challenge of adequate plaque control have be show in at least eight clinical trial to reap superior plaque benefit with a power toothbrush . Gingivitis and/or pocket depth improvement be also demonstrate . Similarly , child with poor oral hygiene have meet with significantly great plaque removal in at least two clinical trial with power toothbrush . As the clinical evidence mount that power brush have the potential to deliver superior plaque removal , dental professional be increasingly recommend the use of power toothbrush for all segment of their patient base . Benefits beyond plaque removal strengthen the case for power toothbrush . Consider that after 30 day or more of brush , power toothbrush , include the Oral-B Plaque Remover , Rowenta Dentiphant , and Colgate Actibrush , be find superior in reducing exist gingivitis over manual toothbrush by 8 to 40 percent . The power Oral-B 3-D Excel reduce gingivitis an average of 23 percent compare with baseline over a three-month period . And after a one-month investigation , participant use the Crest Spinbrush reap an average 62 percent reduction in pre-study gingival bleed site . Power toothbrush have also be show to deliver good stain removal and tooth whiten than manual brush . These esthetic benefit appeal to the appearance-conscious public enamored with whitening product . Click here to enlarge image In a laboratory stain pellicle removal test , the Crest Spinbrush Pro be superior in increase tooth lightness when compare to a manual toothbrush . In two separate clinical trial of induce chlorhexidene and/or tea stain , two Braun power brush remove more stain than a manual brush in a single use study ; similarly , great amount of stain be remove by the power Sonicare brush compare with the manual brush in the second trial . Stain reduction up to 82 percent be report by participant use the Crest Spinbrush and Sonicare Plus power brush in two independent study . Clearly , research show power toothbrush outshine their manual counterpart . Misconception No . 4 For the best result , I must purchase one of the expensive power toothbrush . Reality : The power toothbrush market have experience explosive growth since 1999 , with retail purchase double and now exceed $ 847 million in annual sale . While historically these brush be often cost-prohibitive , the introduction of low cost power toothbrush have open the door to everyone . Yet confusion still reign when people must decide how much to spend on a power toothbrush . Surprisingly , in the world of power toothbrush , a big price tag do not necessarily mean better . Several clinical study demonstrate that some of the most affordable power brush - those in about the $ 10 range - perform a well a or good than the expensive brush in remove plaque . The Crest Spinbrush model and Colgate Actibrush generally be sell retail for under $ 10 in the United States . While the high price power brush often utilize advance oscillate and ultrasonic feature , new research demonstrates that the oscillate and translate brush head design of a low cost battery power brush can be equally or more effective in combating plaque . The average price of power toothbrush have be reduce by half in the last few year , and consumer can now affordably access the benefit of power toothbrush technology with the low cost option . For those who choose a more economical battery-powered brush , do it make any difference which one they select ? Research be demonstrate that there be difference in brush performance in the under $ 10 category . In a 2003 university crossover clinical trial , participant use two different type of battery power brush have an average of 20.2 percent less plaque after a single use with one of the brush . Click here to enlarge image While high-priced model have be consistently effective , low cost model such a Crest SpinBrush be specifically develop to provide a reasonably price alternative without sacrificing quality . When the Crest SpinBrush be introduce , it account for almost half of all U.S. power toothbrush sale . With the removal of high price barrier , consumer be trade up from manual to power toothbrush in record number . The result have be great accessibility and value for those who want the superior benefit of oral hygiene with power toothbrush . Misconception No . 5 : My patient who try power toothbrush will be more compliant at first but will eventually switch back to manual toothbrush once the novelty have wear off . Reality : Results of a large clinical trial of 16,000 participant suggest that adult who switch from a manual toothbrush to a power toothbrush be more satisfy with the effectiveness of the power brush and generally do not switch back after the trial end . As hygienist know , patient compliance can make or break a self-care regimen . Several clinical trial have be conduct to test the novelty effect of power toothbrush and the impact on compliance . Results demonstrate that use of power toothbrush encourage patient to brush long . Longer brushing have be report to result in an almost linear reduction in plaque . This be true in both child and adult . Consumers perceive power toothbrushing to be easy compare to manual toothbrushing . Brushing duration be examine in two randomized controlled study . The first study of 64 adult use a parallel design with two group : 1 ) a power toothbrush group and 2 ) a control manual toothbrush group . Subjects be ask to time brush in the morning and evening with a stopwatch and to record their time in a diary . Voluntary response from the power toothbrush user ( n=30 ) suggest they tend to brush long than with a manual toothbrush . The second study use the same design with 60 child randomly assign to one of the group . Parents be ask to time their childrens brush in the morning and evening and record the time in a diary . The result indicate that childrens mean brush time be significantly long when use the power toothbrush . Why power toothbrush provide superior per-formances boil down to two key factor : design advantage and increase user motivation . Power brush feature complex and intricate bristle motion that cant be duplicate by a manual brush . Brush head size be generally small than the average manual brush , which enhances access to hard-to-reach area . With respect to heighten motivation , the perception that these brush be easy and more fun to use have be document , and often lead to increase brushing time and frequency . Better cleaning efficiency and longer brush exposure be powerful dual weapon in improve overall oral health . A large study be design to evaluate the potential of a power toothbrush to improve oral hygiene , and to investigate the attitude of dental professional and patient toward this brush . Both dentist and dental hygienist ( n=3,669 ) in the United States be select to participate . Approximately 80,000 patient also participate in the study that consist of two phase . First , the dental professional made a subjective clinical evaluation of the patient oral health , before and after change to the power toothbrush . Second , a train interviewer ask subject a series of attitude question after 10 month of power toothbrush use . Click here to enlarge image A total of 687 patient use the power toothbrush be include in the final analysis . Results show that 80.5 percent of patient benefit from switch to a power toothbrush . Dental professional judge their oral health status to have improve somewhat or considerably , and 75 percent of the patient population agree with that assessment . This study support the result from previously cite controlled clinical study , which show that power toothbrush be more effective than manual toothbrush . Patricia Walters , RDH , MS , be a Senior Scientist/Engineer in the Oral Care Research & Development Division of The Procter & Gamble Company , Cincinnati , OH . She may be contact at walters.pa @ pg.com . Shelly L. Campbell , RDH , MPH , be a clinical research consultant work and write from her home in Lees Summit , MO . She can be reach at SL0126 @ sscampbell.com . References available upon request . Related Articles White teeth , the professional way `` Puff , Not the Magic Dragon ... The Cost of America 's Tobacco Use '' Getting ready for the tooth fairy Keeping thing clear DentistryIQ Topics Products Front office Community Clinical Continuing Education Events Practice Management RDH Products Dental Hygiene Marketplace RDH MAGAZINE ON FACEBOOK STAY CONNECTED Dental Photo of the Day Impacted canine and orthodontic treatment Most recent Celebrating Colleagues For growth and change A smile about patient satisfaction RDHAPs in public health Understanding Millennials 1421 S. Sheridan Road Tulsa , Oklahoma 74112 PH : 800.331.4633 Copyright 2015 PennWell Corporation All Rights Reserved . Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy UTILITY Home About Us Advertise Contact Us Subscribe Events RSS Topics Headlines Dentist Hygienists Industry Products Office Mangement Lab Students Conferences Continuing Ed . Dentistry IQ Network Dentistry IQ Dental Economics RDH Magazine Surgical Restorative Resource APEX 360 Complete Registration Please fill out the remain field to complete your registration . First Name Last Name Email Job Title Company Country Please select ... United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bali Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territories Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo , Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador England Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia FYROM Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France France , Metropolitan French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island And Mcdonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea , DPRK ( North ) Korea , South Kosovo-UNMIK Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Newfoundland Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Scotland Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands ( British ) Virgin Islands ( U.S . ) Wallis And Futuna Islands Western Sahara Worldwide Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe By clicking 'Register ' you be indicate that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy . Login Do n't have an account ? Register now Login with your social account : or Or , login with your PennWell account : Email Address Password Forgot your password ? Register Already have an account ? Login Join use your social account : or Or , register with u use the form below : First Name Last Name Email Password Job Title Company Country Please select ... United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bali Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territories Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo , Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador England Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia FYROM Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France France , Metropolitan French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island And Mcdonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea , DPRK ( North ) Korea , South Kosovo-UNMIK Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Newfoundland Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Scotland Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City State Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands ( British ) Virgin Islands ( U.S . ) Wallis And Futuna Islands Western Sahara Worldwide Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe By clicking 'Register ' you be indicate that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy . Forgot your password ? Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instruction via email . Email Address Your password have be change successfully . Your username be not find in the system . Please check the username and try again . Your password change be in progress ... . Email Sent An email have be send to . Please follow the instruction in the email to change your password . Welcome to PennWell Your account have be create and you be now log in . You already have an account It look like you 've already register with . Please login below to link your account . 