Kindle Fire Battery Tips - Save Your Kindle Fire Battery Follow Love My Fire ! LoveMyFire > Kindle Fire Tips & Tricks > Kindle Fire Battery Saving Tips Do n't miss my late FREE Kindle Fire Tips , news , article , giveaway , tutorial , and other goody ! Subscribe now to get my Kindle Fire Alerts and you 'll also receive exclusive access to : Best Kindle Fire Apps ( Increase volume , dim screen , access file , and more ! ) Easily Get Apps from Google Play Store Onto Your Kindle Fire Email Address First Name I hate spam too and promise to only send you Kindle Fire News . ( See my Privacy Policy for detail . ) Home Welcome ! About Love My Fire About Me Alerts ! Contact Me Giveaways Search Sponsorship Subscribe to RSS Kindle Fire About Kindle Fire What be a Kindle Fire ? How to Use Kindle Fire Kindle Fire HD/X 2014 Kindle Fire HDX 2013 Kindle Fire HD 2012 Kindle Fire Features Keyboard Options Which Do You Own ? Everything HDX Can Do Everything It Can Do Accessories Apps Books Games Problems Tips/Tricks Store Blog FAQ Map Kindle Fire Battery Saving Tips These easy battery save tip for your Kindle Fire will help you conserve your tablet 's power to give you more time to play and less time on the charger . Like any other electronic device that live off of battery juice , the Kindle Fire 's power can drain away if you 're unaware of what 's eat it up , so do n't miss these sweet Kindle Fire tip & trick for get the most out of your tablet ! Kindle Fire Battery Monitor To start off , if you have a new Kindle Fire , go check out the section `` Display Your Battery 's Power '' in my basic article on use a Kindle Fire . It 's a really helpful little feature to instantly know how much juice your tablet have remain . Also , you may want to try out a really sweet app call GSam Battery monitory for monitoring what area of your tablet use up battery power . It 's quite handy and be on my exclusive list of the Best Kindle Fire Apps . Plus , if you do n't have a new tablet with the ability to see your percentage of battery power , this app have an add-on feature that will do it for you , just see my best apps list for all the detail . Kindle Fire Battery Guzzlers Before we get start with all my great battery save tip for your Kindle Fire , let 's go over your tablet 's big power guzzler : Screen Brightness Videos WiFi/Internet ( stream content ) Apps Bluetooth The more you use , the more battery be consume . If you use a combination of these , especially the heavy hitter , the faster your power will be drain . Thus , when stream a video which us your screen , WiFi , video , and sound , you 're really hit your battery hard . Of course , there 's nothing wrong with this , it 's just good to be aware of what be use up your power . That 's why the GSam Battery monitor be so useful ... although it will be use up power to run a well . There 's always a catch-22 . Battery Saving Tip : Put Your Kindle Fire to Sleep A simple battery saving tip for your Kindle Fire be to put it in sleep mode when not in use or when you 're listen to music but do n't need to see your screen . You can also change the amount of time your tablet stay awake before it go to sleep . Depending on which Kindle Fire you have ( if you 're not sure , see my inforgraphic , `` Which Kindle Fire Do You Have ? `` ) will depend on how you change the amount of inactive time before your tablet automatically go into `` sleep '' mode . Go into your setting and then go to the follow section for your device : Kindle Fire ( 2011 ) : Display - > Screen Timeout Kindle Fire ( 2012 ) : Sounds & Display - > Screen Timeout Kindle Fire ( 2013 ) : Display & Sounds - > Display Sleep ( Why do Amazon change thing with each tablet ? *Sigh* ) I prefer to leave mine set to the default five minute , but if you really want to save battery power , try one minute : Battery Saving Tip : Turn Down Brightness A simple way to help conserve the battery power on your Kindle Fire be to turn down the brightness when you do n't need it set to full blast ! : ) Just slide down the quick menu setting , tap `` Brightness '' , and slide down the level of brightness to a degree that still meet your eyeball ' need but help save some juice on your device . Of course , you can use the auto-brightness feature , if your Kindle Fire have it ( some version do n't ) , but if you 're like me , I prefer to have complete control over the brightness of my Kindle Fire screen . Battery Saving Tip : Turn Off Wi-Fi A really great Kindle Fire battery-saving tip be to turn off WiFi ( or your Mobile connection if you have the Kindle Fire with 4G ) when you 're not use it . If you 're also like me and constantly use WiFi here and there , you may not want to turn it off . However , if you wo n't be use your tablet for awhile , or will be use it for non-Internet need for a period of time , then it 's worth taking a little time to turn off your WiFi to conserve battery power . Just go to your wireless setting and turn WiFi off : When you need to connect , just turn it back on ! It 's simple , but WiFi can be a big power guzzler , especially if you have a lot of run apps that be regularly hit up your Internet . It 's also good to turn off Bluetooth if you 're not use it . Next , I 'll show you how you to check for those nasty battery thief : run apps . Battery Saving Tip : Exit Out of Apps If you 're play a game or use a heavy app , it will continue to drain your battery if it 's leave run , even when your Kindle Fire screen go to sleep . I 've notice that if I 'm play a game , get interrupt , leave my Kindle Fire , it go to sleep , and a long time late I come back , my battery will really be drain ! It 's a if you be continually play but instead of the joy of beat another level , your battery will have drop several notch . I 've also notice the same issue when my daughter be play a game in the Kindle FreeTime app . If she stop play and it left run for a long time , the battery will be drain , even to the point of kill it until I charge it again . So be sure to exit an app if you 're interrupt and go to be away from your device for awhile , or your child stop play and leaf it run . Your percentage of remain power will thank you ! : ) Most apps will stop run when you exit out of them , so no need to worry about them run in the background . However , there be SOME apps that will continue to run , especially those that have special `` feature '' to regularly check some kind of score , connection , game request , etc . Keep reading and I 'll show you how to check , and deal with , those annoy and continually run apps ! Battery Saving Tip : Check for Running Apps You may not be aware of it , but there be some apps that continually run on your Kindle Fire , even after exit out of them . Here 's how you can know which apps be currently run on your device . Go to your Kindle Fire setting and the follow the path below for your specific tablet : Kindle Fire ( 2011 ) : Applications Kindle Fire ( 2012 ) : Applications - > Installed Applications Kindle Fire ( 2013 ) : Applications - > Manage All Applications Then tap `` All Applications '' and select `` Running Applications '' from the drop down menu : A list of all apps currently run on your Kindle Fire will be list . Now , there will be a few that you do n't know what they be , usually these be basic apps your device need to run . However , you should see some apps that you download and instal . Tap an app to view it detail , include the amount of storage and data it use . Sometimes you can `` Clear Cache '' from an app which be a handy way to clear up some memory usage . Be careful not to hit the `` Clear Data '' button a it may wipe out all info from the app , such a game data , personal setting , etc . However , if you 're have problem with that particular app this be a good troubleshooting fix to try out . Please be aware that you might lose data , but you wo n't lose the app itself , it 'll always be available in your cloud if purchase from Amazon . Alright . Now you have three option of what to do about apps that be run on your Kindle Fire : Leave it alone ( especially if it 's an app that you expect regular information from , like email ) . Tap the `` Force stop '' button to make the app turn off ( it may start back up on it own though ) . Uninstall the app ( see my next Kindle Fire battery save tip below for detail ) . Battery Saving Tip : Uninstall Battery Sucking Apps If you have apps that you do n't use anymore that be always run in the background , then it 's time to uninstall them if you want to save your Kindle Fire battery life- it 'll last longer this way ! Now , you wo n't be able to uninstall apps that come pre-installed with your Kindle Fire . That 's just the way it be , sorry ! Fortunately , any apps you 've personally download and instal can be delete . You can even delete them right there in the Application Settings , just tap the app to view it , then hit the `` Uninstall '' button and confirm your choice by hitting `` OK '' . Viol , the app will uninstall and then it 's go ! It 'll no longer be run and suck your Kindle Fire battery ! Or , if you 're no long in the app setting , just find the app icon on your device ( in the carousel or on the apps page ) and tap and hold down on the icon . A menu with option will pop up , tap `` Remove from device '' to uninstall an app . Again , tap `` OK '' to confirm your decision . Battery Saving Tip : Turn off Notification Settings Some apps have internal setting that let you turn off notification or other `` feature '' that automatically check thing for you , which mean they keep run in the background . This will vary in each app , so feel free to take some time to check your favorite apps for any such setting . Also , Kindle Fires release since 2012 have some setting for turn off individual app notification . Let me show you how . Go to your tablet 's setting , then follow the instruction for your specific device : Kindle Fire ( 2012 ) : Applications - > Notification Settings - > Tap the `` Off '' button for any app . Kindle Fire ( 2013 ) : Notifications & Quiet Time - > Tap an app - > Tap `` Off '' for those notification you do n't want to receive . Battery Saving Tip : Reboot Your Kindle Fire This be such a simple trick , but reboot ( turn it off and back on ) your Kindle Fire can help clear up any junk on your Kindle Fire ( like run apps and open data ) that may be use up some of your battery power . Turning your Kindle Fire on and off will refresh thing but let you have your tablet ready to go when you want to use it . You do n't need to constantly do this , but if you find thing be run slow or it 's be a few day since you power it off , it 's a good battery save tip to do . If your tablet get lock up ( wo n't work , boot , or charge ) see my reboot tutorial for help . Battery Saving Tips : When Connected to Your TV Here be some great battery save tip for your Kindle Fire when it 's hook up to your TV , either directly connect with an HDMI cord or when mirror wirelessly ( depend on which tablet you have ) . How to save your Kindle Fire 's battery : Turn down the brightness Turn down the volume Lowering either the brightness or volume wo n't affect your television 's output , but it will help save your Kindle Fire 's battery life ! Thanks to Ken Evoy , owner of SiteSell.com , and fellow Kindle Fire fan who share this little tip with me ! Yep , I have n't even think of this sweet battery save idea until he point it out . Thanks , Ken ! Learn about SiteSell/SiteBuildIt ( SBI ) in my journey of create this fun website . Battery Saving Tip : Charge While Using It Did you know you can use your Kindle Fire WHILE it 's plug in and charge ? Yes , you can ! Of course , it wo n't charge a fast a when it 's not in use , but you can definitely use your tablet while charge it . This be really handy when your battery power be low and you still want to play on your device . However , if you 're do any big-battery-sucking activity , like streaming a video , you 'll still use more power than you charge so be sure you have enough power before start , you do n't want to run out of juice before you 're do . Long-Term Battery Saving Tips If you wo n't be use your Kindle Fire for a long period of time , let 's say a day or two , then it 's a good idea to turn it off . Unfortunately , your battery will slowly drain away until it 's eventually dead , especially if you do n't charge it for several day . There be two way around this : Turn off your Kindle Fire to conserve battery power Keep your Kindle Fire plug in when not in use* *I 'm not sure if Amazon approve this method or not , but it 's what I usually do . Sometimes I do the first , but usually the second . As long a your charging cable be plug into a power surge protector I think you 'll be fine , however , I ca n't be hold responsible for any damage your electronic may sustain if you try this . ( See my Terms of Use for detail . ) What Kindle Fire Battery Saving Tips Do You Have ? If you know of a tip for saving your Kindle 's battery , I 'd love to hear about it and I 'm sure others would too ! Please post your idea in the comment section below or contact me . Did any of these tip help you ? If so , I would like to hear about that too . : ) Are you ready for some more fabulous Kindle Fire tip & trick ? Of course you be ! Hand Illustrations provide by GestureWorks ( www.gestureworks.com ) Are n't they perfect ? They 're from the Gesture Font Family . Leave a Comment : I love receive your comment , but please read the note below before posting . Thank you ! NOTES : I continue to receive question I 've already answer in my FAQ - PLEASE check there first ! All comment be moderate . If you leave the page you wo n't see your comment until it be approve . Select the `` Post to Facebook '' check box to be notify on FB when a reply have be post . If you scan the previous comment you may find an answer to your question . Click the `` View X more '' link at the bottom ( if visible ) to see all comment . If you 're have trouble access my exclusive Kindle Fire article , please email me directly instead of post in these comment . Thanks for share ! NEW : Update : Version 3.5 Win a Kindle Fire HD 7 '' ! Update : Which Kindle Fire Do You Have ? New Love My Fire Assistant ! Search this site ! Exclusive Kindle Fire Alerts ! Do n't miss any Kindle Fire goodies ! SUBSCRIBE NOW ! E-mail Address : First Name : I hate spam too and promise to only send you Kindle Fire Alerts . ( See my Privacy Policy for detail . ) From Love My Fire Fans : Read more Testimonials or Share Your Own ! Home Welcome ! About Love My Fire About Me Alerts ! Contact Me Giveaways Search Sponsorship Subscribe to RSS Kindle Fire About Kindle Fire What be a Kindle Fire ? How to Use Kindle Fire Kindle Fire HD/X 2014 Kindle Fire HDX 2013 Kindle Fire HD 2012 Kindle Fire Features Keyboard Options Which Do You Own ? Everything HDX Can Do 