Prison Planet.com Futurist : Smart Meters Will Know What TV Show Youre Watching Listen Now Advanced Search Home Alex Jones Radio Show Listening Info Listen Live Podcast Archives Featured Stories World News Prison Planet Commentary Multimedia Sci Tech Special Reports Paul Watson Articles Steve Watson Articles Links Infowars Prison Planet TV Infowars.net Social Alex Jones Twitter Alex Jones Facebook Prison Planet Forum Prison Planet Twitter Newsgroup Store Top Stories Breaking News Contact Contact Advertise Customer Service Featured Stories World News Commentary Money Watch Multimedia Prison Planet U.S. News Science And Technology Futurist : Smart Meters Will Know What TV Show Youre Watching Internet of Things could have catastrophic consequence Paul Joseph Watson Prison Planet.com February 12 , 2015 Global security futurist Marc Goodman warn that smart meter may one day be able to detect what television program people be watch , another example of how the Internet of Things threaten to jeopardize privacy . Goodman , who have previously work a an advisor to the FBI , the US Secret Service and Interpol , tell Singularity Hubs Jason Dorrier that the widespread implementation of the Internet of Things could lead to catastrophic consequence , such a car be remotely hack and make to crash . Twenty year ago nobody worry about their car be hack , say Goodman . Today , a typical car us over 250 microchip that can be hack remotely . Somebody can remotely deploy your airbag or slam on the brake a youre go down the highway . The futurist also warn that the arrival of the smart home would lead to a cornucopia of new surveillance opportunity , echo former CIA director David Petraeus , who hail the Internet of thing a a transformational boon for clandestine tradecraft in a 2012 Wired Magazine interview . Smart meter , for example , be now be instal around the world . Every single device you plug into an electric socket have it own signature . When you plug in your Samsung television or Hamilton blender , the outlet know what be be plug into it . And from that you can derive even further intelligence . There be startup now that be look at the fluctuation in energy usage to deduce what pixel be highlight on your television , and by knowing what pixel be highlight on the TV , they can reverse engineer , base upon the electricity that you use , what television program youre watch . The European Data Protection Supervisor ( EDPS ) caution that the rollout of smart meter will allow massive collection of personal data by utility company and government , track what household do within the privacy of their own home , whether they be away on holiday or at work , if someone us a specific medical device or a baby monitor , or how they spend their free time . The idea of the government or hacker vacuum up information via people television have be a hot topic this week , with Samsung be force to respond to revelation that it Smart TVs be send private conversation to a third party Internet server . As Infowars first report back in November , Samsungs global privacy policy advises user to , Please be aware that if your spoken word include personal or other sensitive information , that information will be among the data capture and transmit to a third party through your use of Voice Recognition . After the mainstream medium pick up the story three month late , Samsung be force to admit that word hear by the device microphone be be send to a server run by a third party , although the company say the communication be encrypt . Facebook @ http : //www.facebook.com/paul.j.watson.71 FOLLOW Paul Joseph Watson @ http : //twitter.com/PrisonPlanet ********************* Paul Joseph Watson be the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com . Related post : Is Your Smart Meter Spying On You ? How privacy-conscious consumer be fool , hack smart meter Privacy and Health Concerns on Smart Meters Growing Globally No More Privacy : Smart Meters Are Surveillance Devices That Monitor The Behavior In Your Home Every Single Minute Of Every Single Day Security Expert : The NSA Has EVERYONE Under CONSTANT Surveillance This article be post : Thursday , February 12 , 2015 at 5:16 pm Share this article Recommend on Facebook Tweet about it Digg this post share via Reddit Email Print this page . Infowars.com Videos : Comment on this article MOST POPULAR Obama Thanks Americans for Supporting Destruction of the Internet ( 374 comment ) Netanyahu Tells Congress Iran On March of Conquest , Subjugation and Terror ( 228 comment ) Report : Vaccine Propaganda Exposed ( 164 comment ) Video : Man Falls Asleep On Bus , Cop Pummels And Pepper Sprays Him ( 143 comment ) LAPD Shooting : The New Michael Brown ? ( 135 comment ) Watch the News Thursday . The Alex Jones Show . UK Establishment Pedophile Scandal , US Arming Islamic State , & Clinton Email Scandal Wednesday : The Infowars Nightly News . Police Overwhelmingly Reject AR-15 Cop Killer Ammo Ban Netanyahu Addresses Congress ' Culture Of Fear Climate Change A National Security Threat ? Wednesday.The Alex Jones Show . Sandy Hook Revisited , and McDonalds Going Organic Tuesday : The Infowars Nightly News . Obama To Expand Control Over State , Local Police Tuesday : The Alex Jones Show . Netanyahus Congressional Speech , Obama to Announce Power Grab , and Thermogeddon Monday : The Infowars Nightly News . Did The CIA Assassinate Boris Nemtsov In Moscow To Blame Putin ? Monday : The Alex Jones Show . Why be Netanyahu here to speak to Congress ? Sunday : The Alex Jones Show . The Latest On The Chicago 'Black Site ' Protests : Updates From Infowars Reporters On-The-Ground Friday : The Infowars Nightly News . Obama Thanks Americans For Supporting Destruction Of The Internet Friday : The Alex Jones Show . Reporters Harassed At Secret Torture Site In Chicago Thursday : The Infowars Nightly News . FCC Approves New Net Neutrality Rules Thursday : The Alex Jones Show . California Jam , Net Neutrality , and Obama 's New Bullet Ban Wednesday : The Infowars Nightly News . FCC Refuses To Testify Before Congress Ahead Of Internet Takeover . Wednesday : The Alex Jones Show . The War For Net Neutrality & Chicago Police Black-Sites Navy Proves Flu Shot Causes Flu Globalists Welcome Illegals To America Tuesday : The Infowars Nightly News . I Strongly Oppose 'Audit the Fed , ' Yellen Says . Tuesday : The Alex Jones Show . Alex Jones & Jesse Ventura Head to Head Thursday . The Alex Jones Show . UK Establishment Pedophile Scandal , US Arming Islamic State , & Clinton Email Scandal Wednesday : The Infowars Nightly News . Police Overwhelmingly Reject AR-15 Cop Killer Ammo Ban Netanyahu Addresses Congress ' Culture Of Fear Climate Change A National Security Threat ? 1 2 3 4 5 RSS FEEDS RSS Alex Jones Podcast FEATURED VIDEOS The Crazy World of Feminist Theater See the rest on the Alex Jones YouTube channel . The Crazy World of Feminist Theater See the rest on the Alex Jones YouTube channel . 