Study support carbon tax , but now the hard part come for environmentalist - Business - The Boston Globe Study support carbon tax , but now the hard part come for environmentalist - Business - The Boston Globe Relive the excitement of the Patriots path to their fourth Super Bowl Championship with Pumped , a special commemorative book from The Boston Globe . Business Boston.com Classifieds : Cars Jobs Real Estate Log In Subscribe : Subscribe Digital Home Delivery Log In Search Sections News Metro Arts Business Sports Opinion Politics Lifestyle Magazine Insiders Today 's Paper Todays Paper Markets Technology BetaBoston Bruins Live 0 0 Game start at 7:00 PM Carbon tax could be tough sell on Beacon Hill E-Mail Share via e-mail To Add a message Your e-mail Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Comments Print The Boston Globe Share Tweet AP Smoke billow from industrial stack near exit 13 on the New Jersey Turnpike in Elizabeth , N.J.. By Jay Fitzgerald Globe Correspondent January 04 , 2015 Environmentalists get what they want last month with the release of a state study that lay the intellectual groundwork for a multibillion dollar carbon tax on gasoline , heating oil , natural gas , and other fossil fuel blame for accelerating climate change . Using the study finding , environmentalist be plan to renew a push this year to pass a carbon tax in Massachusetts , after previous attempt falter on Beacon Hill . State Senator Michael Barrett , Democrat of Lexington , say he will file carbon tax legislation late this month . RELATED : Study recommends state carbon tax to fight climate change Continue reading below Then come the hard part : Persuading skeptical lawmaker and resident that increase gasoline and heating oil price by a minimum of 27 cent per gallon and monthly natural gas bill by 12 percent be the politically and economically right thing to do . Keep in mind , the Legislature only reluctantly approve a 3 cent per gallon increase in the state gas tax two year ago and voter two month ago repeal a measure that tie future gas-tax increase to the rate of inflation . Add skyrocketing electricity price , and it not exactly a friendly climate for those want to tax fossil fuel into near oblivion in Massachusetts . The idea of a carbon tax open up a huge public policy question involve hundred of move piece , say Michael Widmer , president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation , a business-backed fiscal watchdog group . It wont happen overnight . It will take a lot of time and a lot of debate to convince people . The carbon tax be consider by policy analyst a a blunt but effective instrument to discourage the use of fossil fuel , which emit so-called greenhouse gas , such a carbon dioxide , that contribute to global warming . Supporters of such a tax concede that heavily tax gasoline , heating oil , and natural gas would by itself spur fierce opposition , but they propose offset the cost with tax break or direct rebate to taxpayer . Such a plan , supporter say , would cut carbon emission by as much a 5 to 10 percent a year while minimize the potential economic harm . This revenue neutral approach be model on British Columbia , Canada , which in 2008 implement a carbon tax while deeply cut individual and corporate income tax . The province today have the low personal income tax in Canada and one of the low corporate income tax in North America and it have cut fuel consumption by 16 percent , accord to published report We really see a revenue-neutral carbon tax a a transformative policy , say Rebecca Morris , spokeswoman for Climate XChange , a local environmental advocacy group . The state study , which cost $ 150,000 to produce , recommend direct rebate to resident . It estimate a carbon tax , base on pricing carbon emission at $ 30 per metric ton , would raise about $ 1.75 billion a year , which translate into a 27 cent per gallon jump in gasoline and heating oil price , a 12 percent rise in natural gas price , and unspecified increase in electricity rate . Revenues would soar even high if carbon emission be price above $ 30 per metric ton , a be the case in Sweden , which have a $ 168 per ton tax and keep the revenue for other government program . A total of 14 country have variation of a carbon tax , some with offset tax cut and rebate , others without . No state in America have an economywide carbon tax . The Massachusetts study conduct by a team of energy and economic consulting firm hire by the state Department of Energy Resources project that the state might experience small job and income gain a a result of revenue-neutral carbon tax , largely through consumer and business buy less energy produce in other state and country . That would mean more money stay in the Massachusetts economy and spend on good and service from local firm , the report conclude . Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moodys Analytics , an economic research firm in West Chester , Pa. , say it possible to craft a revenue-neutral carbon tax that minimize harm to an economy . A carbon tax be a great idea to reduce carbon emission and cut your dependence on foreign oil , assume it done right , say Zandi . But the state report also note that energy-intensive industry , such a transportation , manufacturing , construction , and utility , would probably see job and income loss . Michael Ferrante , president of Massachusetts Energy Marketers Association , a trade group for heating oil dealer and wholesaler , say it doesnt make sense to impose a new tax on fossil fuel when Massachusetts consumer and business already pay some of high energy price in the nation . He add that he believe lawmaker would ultimately abandon carbon tax offset and spend the revenue on other program . Thats the most laughable aspect of this entire thing , he say . The revenue neutral idea be just a Trojan horse to get the tax pass . They want to tax [ fossil fuel ] out of existence . Governor-elect Charlie Baker , whose inauguration be Thursday , have yet to take a position on the finding of the carbon tax study . During the recent gubernatorial campaign . Baker be ask at an environmental forum if he would support an economywide , revenue-neutral carbon tax . Baker praise effort to low carbon emission , but say he didnt want to do anything that profoundly disadvantage the economy , the citizen , the business of Massachusetts relative to other state . It wasnt an outright rejection of a carbon tax but not an endorsement either . Jay Fitzgerald can be reach at jayfitzmedia @ gmail.com . E-Mail Share via e-mail To Add a message Your e-mail Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Get Today 's Headlines from the Globe in your inbox : Please enter a valid email address Thank you for subscribe to Today 's Headlines ! Privacy Policy Loading comment ... Continue reading below Top 10 Trending Articles Most Viewed Most Commented Most Shared Learn more Subscribe Boston Globe Insiders EPaper Edition News in education My Account Log in Manage my Account Download Customer Service App Contact Help FAQs Globe newsroom Advertise Social Facebook Twitter Google+ More Archives Privacy policy Terms of service Terms of purchase Your Ad Choices Work at Boston Globe Media 2015 Boston Globe Media Partners , LLC X Enjoy your first free article You can now read 5 free article . Get unlimited access for just 99 . Sign up Subscriber Log In X This be your last free article in a month . Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99 Sign up Subscriber Log In X You have read 7 of 10 free article in a month . Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99 Sign up Subscriber Log In X You have read 9 of 10 free article in a month . Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99 Sign up Subscriber Log In Wake up with today 's top story . Want each day 's news headline deliver fresh to your inbox every morning ? Just connect with u in one of the following way : Facebook Google or Please enter a valid email Submit & return to story No thanks , take me to my article . BostonGlobe.com will never post anything without ask . Privacy Policy X This be your last free article in a month . Continue reading with unlimited access for just 99 Sign up Subscriber Log In Read it all , now . Do n't miss any of your favorite story again . Read the story that matter to you a much a you want , whenever you want when you subscribe to BostonGlobe.com . Get full access today for just 99 SIGN UP No thanks , take me to my article . Subscribers log in here . Subscriber Log In You have reach the limit of 5 free article in a month Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99 . Continue reading by subscribing to BostonGlobe.com for just 99 . Stay inform with unlimited access to Bostons trust news source . High-quality journalism from the region large newsroom Convenient access across all of your device Todays Headlines daily newsletter Subscriber-only access to exclusive offer , event , contest , eBooks , and more Less than 25 a week GET FULL ACCESS NOW GET FULL ACCESS NOW 