Clean Energy Council - Solar PV Home About Membership Technologies Policy and advocacy Media centre Events Contact Sign In Solar Accreditation Subscribe to our Newsletter Member Sign In Search Search for Main Content Clean Energy Council Home About Membership Technologies Policy and advocacy Media centre Events Contact Sub-navigation share Renewable energy map Bioenergy Cogen and trigen Energy efficiency Energy storage Geothermal Grid Hydroelectricity Large-scale solar PV Marine energy Off-grid renewables Solar PV Solar thermal Solar water heating Wind energy Home Technologies Solar PV share Solar PV Solar photovoltaic ( PV ) panel on the roof of home and business use energy from the sun to generate electricity cleanly and quietly . The conversion of sunlight into electricity take place in cell of specially fabricate semiconductor crystal . Solar do n't generate electricity all the time , but it do generate electricity when it be need most during the day and during hot sunny period when the demand for power ( driven by air-conditioners ) be at it peak . Another bonus of small-scale solar be that it generate electricity at the point of demand ( i.e . where people live and work ) . That mean there be no need to transfer energy over long distance use expensive electrical infrastructure . The Clean Energy Council and solar PV quality As the peak body for renewable energy in Australia , the Clean Energy Council have an important role to play in ensuring the quality , safety and reliability of the country 's solar PV industry . As well a our solar policy and advocacy work , we administer a number of scheme design to maximise product and service standard in the solar PV industry . These include : Solar installer accreditation , which ensures installers and designer have the proper qualification to install safe , reliable solar system . The Solar PV Retailer Code of Conduct , a voluntary scheme that allow business sell solar system to demonstrate their commitment to industry best practice . Approved product listing . We maintain a list of solar panel and inverter that meet Australian standard , the minimum requirement for solar product to be sell in Australia . Please note that there be also a range of independent module and inverter rating system with high quality and performance standard . The Clean Energy Council also work closely with the organisation responsible for the safety and regulation of Australia 's solar PV industry , include state electrical body , the Clean Energy Regulator and Standards Australia . For more information visit the Solar Accreditation website . Solar PV in Australia : 2013 in focus Almost 1.25 million Australian property have solar power system Almost 1.25 million small-scale solar power system be instal across the country by the end of 2013 , meaning that around 3.1 million Australians now live or work beneath a set of solar panel . In 2013 , small-scale solarwas responsible for 11 per cent of Australia 's clean energy generation and produce 1.62 per cent of the country 's total electricity . While more than 200,000 solar PV system be instal in 2013 , sale be short of the high of the previous two year . This can be attribute to the overall contraction of the solar market follow the reduction of state-based power incentive . The number of solar installers in Australia also decrease slightly , to a total of 4595 at the end of 2013 . Percentage of Australia 's total solar PV capacity in each state ( cumulative to end 2013 ) Australian Capital Territory 1.3 % New South Wales 20.2 % Northern Territory 0.4 % Queensland 32.8 % South Australia 15.4 % Tasmania 1.9 % Victoria 20.2 % Western Australia 11 % Data from the Office of the Clean Energy Regulator continue to show that Australians from all walk of life be embrace solar technology . Residents of affluent , inner-city suburb generally instal solar at much low rate that people in 'mortgage belt ' , retirement and regional area , who be more likely to feel the pain of rise electricity price . The future of solar PV in Australia Even without feed-in tariff , a combination of rise electricity price and the falling cost of solar PV system mean the business case for solar remains compel . In it 2012 Australian Energy Technology Assessment , the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics estimate that solar power would be among the cheap of all energy source by the end of the decade . However , there be concern that the Federal Governments review of the Renewable Energy Target could lead to a reduction in up-front rebate for rooftop solar system . Removing these rebate would increase the cost of small-scale solar by about 30 per cent . This , in turn , could reduce the amount of solar PV be instal in Australia by 50 per cent or more . Australia be one of the sunny continent in the world . Given a stable policy environment , there be massive potential for solar PV to make a significant contribution to electricity generation in Australia over the come decade . Sources : SunWiz Consulting , 2014 Clean Energy Australia Report 2013 Consumer guide Guide to Installing Solar PV for Households Guide to Installing Solar PV for Business and Industry Solar FAQ for consumer Government initiatives New South Wales solar bonus scheme Queensland solar bonus scheme Victorian feed-in tariff scheme Further read Clean Energy Council report Clean Energy Council submission Solar Accreditation website Solar PV Retailer Code of Conduct Fact sheet Household Solar Power in Australia ( PDF , 345 KB ) Member content Domestic PV Directorate Main Content Clean Energy Council 