The Advantages & Disadvantages of Having a Gas Cooktop Range vs. an Electric Smooth-Top Range | Home Guides | SF Gate SF Gate News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns More Less Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save Sections Skip to main content . Home Guides by Demand Media Home Guides Menu Buying Real Estate Construction & Remodeling Design Foreclosures Government Housing Assistance Home Decoration & Design Indoors Insurance & Inspections More Landlords & Tenants Mortgage & Loan Payments Mortgage & Loan Rates Mortgages Outdoors Real Estate Advice Real Estate Rentals & Leases Real Estate Terms & Definitions Real Estate Values & Taxes Refinancing Repair Selling Real Estate Storage Types of Mortgages & Loans Home Guides Insurance & Inspections Insurance Basics The Advantages & Disadvantages of Having a Gas Cooktop Range vs. an Electric Smooth-Top Range The Advantages & Disadvantages of Having a Gas Cooktop Range vs. an Electric Smooth-Top Range by Rochelle Leggett A skilled cook can control the temperature with precision on a gas cooktop . There be a number of variety of range available today , both electric and gas . Electric range can be coil , smooth-top or induction , with the smooth-top version be particularly appeal due to ease of cleaning . Both gas range and electric smooth-top range be good choice , with plenty of appeal advantage , but both have some disadvantage , a well . If you 're interested in buying a new range , you may want to know both the plus and the minus of gas cooktops and electric smooth-tops , and why one might be a good choice for you . Speed Both type of cooktops be fast , and an electric smooth-top range be notable for have even heat . However , gas cooktops be a bit faster . An electric cooktop need to warm up , whereas the heat from a gas cooktop be immediate once you turn on the flame . When you need high heat , however , electric cooktops heat food faster and can get hotter than gas cooktops . Along with heating quickly , gas cooktops also cool down quickly , which be a safety advantage . Cooking When it come to precise temperature control , gas cooktops have a clear advantage . While electric range cook food perfectly well , they do n't have the same level of temperature control , which can be a problem if one be cook food that require precision and care . Temperature change be immediate with a gas range , and some chef can judge the temperature of a stove base on the size and appearance of the gas flame . You can use any type of cookware on a gas range without damaging the burner . However , you ca n't use cast-iron cookware on a smooth-top range , so your cookware option be more limit . Electric cooktops be also dependent upon be level to provide even heating , and pan with uneven or warp bottom will cook less uniformly on an electric smooth-top , whereas this be not an issue with gas cooktops . Installation The difficulty of installation for gas and electric cooktops will vary depend mainly on what be already available in your kitchen . Despite the name , gas cooktops need both gas and a source of electricity . For an electric cooktop , electricity do the cooking . On a gas cooktop , it light the gas , although you can light the burner manually use a match , which make gas cooktops still usable in the event of a power failure , a decided advantage over electric . A gas cooktop need to have a gas hookup available ; if you do n't have a gas line to your house or kitchen , you 'll need to install one , which could be very costly . An electric cooktop need a 125/250-volt outlet . Most kitchen have the proper electrical outlet , but if your kitchen be build with a gas line only , run new power line to the range will be an additional expense . As an additional consideration with installation , it should be note that while both type should have a ventilation hood , it be more important to have one for a gas cooktop , a the burning gas give off some hazardous fume , such a nitrogen dioxide , formaldehyde and carbon monoxide . If your kitchen already have a functional hood , then this be not an issue . Cost As far a initial cost go , gas cooktops be a little more expensive than electric smooth-tops . However , the cost of operating a gas cooktop be noticeably less than that of an electric , so you may find that you will save enough over time to make up for the high initial cost of a gas cooktop . References ( 8 ) Overstock.com : Top 5 Types of Cooktops Overstock.com : Tips for Choosing a Kitchen Range Consumer Reports : Kitchen Range Buying Guide Overstock.com : Top 5 Advantages of Gas Stoves Home Appliance Center : Gas Ranges vs Electric Ranges GE Appliances : Gas Range -- Lighting Electric Ignition During a Power Failure Green Building Advisor : Why Range Hoods Dont Work Black & Decker The Complete Guide to Kitchens About the Author Rochelle Leggett have bachelor 's degree in biopsychology and English and a Master of Library and Information Science . She have be write for over 15 year and be first publish in 2000 . She have be employ in academic setting a a librarian and an archivist . Photo Credits Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images Suggest a Correction Have Feedback ? Thank you for provide feedback to our Editorial staff on this article . Please fill in the following information so we can alert the Home Guides editorial team about a factual or typographical error in this story . All Fields be require . Name E-mail Feedback Type What kind of error ? Factual or Typographical Digital Rights and Permissions Other Comments or Corrections 2000 Character Limit Captcha Enter Code : Submit Related Articles The Disadvantages of Smooth-Top Electric Ranges Advice for Buying an Electric Smooth Top Range How to Troubleshoot a Kenmore Electric Smooth-Top Range Smooth Cooktops vs. Gas The Disadvantages of Glass Range Cooktops How to Clean Stains on Electric Smooth-Top Ranges More Articles How to Remove Burned-on Plastic From a Smooth-Top Range How to Troubleshoot an Electric Flat Cooktop Cooktops With Magnetic Induction Vs. Electric Heating Elements How Do Radiant Cooktop Stoves Work ? Why Do Glass Top Stoves Develop Stains ? How to Replace a Cracked Ceramic GE Cooktop Trending in Your Area Things I Need to Know About Moving From a ... When move from a house to an apartment , one thing that ... How Tenants Stop an Eviction Tenants can stop an eviction in a number of way , include ... Home Inspection for an Old House Home inspector be license per state and they be train ... What if the Appraisal on My Newly-Built Home ... Appraisers typically only have access to information that 's ... What Are Homeowners Required to Disclose ... Your realtor will have a document for you call a seller 's ... How to Negotiate on a Spec Home Spec be an industry term use to stand in for ... How to Get Home Buyers to Pay the Asking ... Getting home buyer to pay the asking price for a home ... Who Is Responsible for the Short Sale : the ... Both the homeowner and the mortgage lender be responsible ... Powered by Demand Media News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save 