Home Appliance Buying Guide - Vacuums , Irons , Hair Dryers , Kettles , Toasters Search Menu Search Stores Account Basket 0 Home Kitchen Appliances Laundry Dishwashers Refrigeration Cooking Built-in Appliances Cooking Accessories Brand shop Services Buying for business ? Small Appliances Floorcare Ironing Sewing machine Health & beauty Small kitchen appliance Fans & heater Microwaves Brand shop Clearance Services Buying for business ? TV & Entertainment Televisions TV accessory DVD , Blu-ray & home cinema Digital set top box Gaming Projectors Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? Cameras Cameras Camcorders CCTV Bags , case and strap Memory Cards & Readers Binoculars & telescope Photography accessory Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? Audio All audio Hi-Fi & speaker dock Headphones Radios Portable audio iPods Dictation Sat nav Brand shop Clearance Services Buying for business ? Computing Laptops iPad , tablet and eReaders Desktop PCs Monitors and projector Printers , scanner & ink Brand shop Learn more about Clearance Services Buying for business ? PC Accessories Print , ink & office Tablet & PC accessory Bags , case & sleeve PC game Hard drive & storage Components & upgrade Software Internet & network Brand shop Learn more about Knowhow service Clearance Buying for business ? Phones Mobile phone Mobile phone accessory Mobile broadband Home phone Fax machine Sat nav Smart Tech Smart Tech Smart watch & fitness Smart health Smart toy & gadget Smart home Sat nav Brand shop Learn more about Kitchen Appliances Small Appliances TV & Entertainment Cameras Audio Computing PC Accessories Phones Smart Tech Home home appliance buy guide View all buy guide Close window TV , DVD & Blu-ray Laundry Computing Photography Floorcare Kitchen & Cooking appliance Audio Home appliance Dishwashers Chillers , Freezers & Refrigerators Digital Transfer Printers View all buy guide Buying guide to Home Appliances Few people relish the thought of household chore , but they need do all the same . Having the right tool for the job make the whole thing that little bit easier . Every home have a vacuum cleaner and an iron , but there be plenty of other labour-saving device available to give you more time for the thing you enjoy . So whether you need a small vacuum for the wood floor in your flat or a high-powered upright to combat the mess a busy family create , our buyer guide will help you pick the perfect partner to help you with the housework . Vacuum cleaner Irons Heating & Cooling Haircare Toothbrushes Shaving Kitchen appliance Which iron ? Back to top Unless you like the crinkled look , you cant escape the ironing . But a good iron can make this tiresome chore a breeze . Steam : Steam iron smooth out the crease in clothes by moisten and relax the fabric using jet of steam . Ideal for small load of iron , they make the job much quicker than a dry iron . Steam Generator : For perfectionist who dont want even a hint of a crease , steam generator iron which connect to a separate water tank base , be your best bet . With double the steam output than a standard iron , steam generator iron can remove the tough of crease , especially in denim clothing , and cut down the time it take to wade through the ironing pile . Non-pressurised : Mid-range steam generator iron be non-pressurised and put out 80-108 gram of steam per minute plenty for normal sized family with big pile of iron . Pressurised : For the quick way to get through the ironing , choose a pressurise steam generator iron . With a steam output reading between 100-120 gram per minute , the steam also pass through the fabric more deeply than a non-pressurised iron , thus leave clothes wrinkle-free in a fraction of the time . Sole plat : Basic plate be make from aluminium , but could become sticky over time , so look for coat non-stick plate . For a smooth glide , choose stainless steel plat or ceramic plate which disperse the heat evenly over the plate . Heaters & cool Back to top Everyone want a bit of warmth and comfort on those cold British night and a portable heater be a sure fire way to get it . Heaters also help you save money by just warm heavily used room rather than stick the central heating on Fan heater : For a quick blast of heat , ideal for small room , a fan heater might be just what you need . Oscillation heater distribute warmth evenly across the room and most model also have a fan set to blow out cool air for the summer month . Fan heater be small , light and portable and can be use throughout the home . Convector Heaters : Ideal for large room , convector heater give an even temperature throughout . They be quieter than fan heater and be still small enough to move around the home . Oil radiator : For adjustable heat , consider an oil-filled radiator which work like a conventional central heating radiator . Good for long-term use in large and small room alike , with compact model also available . Oil-free radiator : If green be your middle name then choose an oil-free radiator for an environmentally friendly heating appliance . They will heat a room quicker and be more efficient and lighter than an oil-filled radiator . Did you know ? Heat output be measure in watt , so for more power choose a high wattage heater , but be aware that these will cost more to run . Fans and air-conditioning Fans come in a range of shape and size , but all be design to give you a cool blast of air and maintain a more comfortable temperature in your home . If you have limit space , choose a desk fan ; pedestal fan be a good option for large room . Features that you may find useful include an oscillating head and fan with various speed setting which enable you to control the room temperature . But if you want something more discreet , but just a practical , opt for a tower fan which can be push away into tight spot . Air conditioner : Air conditioner remove the warm air from your home and recycle it back in a cool air . Working much like a fridge where air pass through the unit and over a cold evaporator coil , air conditioner can cool a whole room and keep the temperature at just the right level . Most model feature a range of different programme . Useful function to look out for include a thermostat , a timer and a dehumidifier . Air purifier : Ideal for allergy sufferer , these clever gadget clean and improve the air quality by removing dust , mould , pollen and virus to keep your family healthy . Its important to factor in the size of the room . Some purifier suit room up to 21m 2 and large unit be able to improve the air quality in room up to 48m 2 . Dehumidifiers : Damp space or room prone to condensation can be tackle effectively with a dehumidifier . These remove excess moisture from the air and collect it in a tank , help to combat mould and mildew in your home . Theyre ideal to use in room where you dry a lot of clothes . Its important to look at the water tank capacity , but two litre should suffice , and an automatic stop function when the tank be full be handy to prevent spill . Hairstyling Back to top Hairdryers come with various speed and heat setting so for more control choose one with a range of setting . A hairdryers power be measure in watt and the usual principle applies more power , more heat . Speed vs style : For quick-drying result and all round performance a standard DC hairdryer with 1,500 watt will suffice , but for salon-style result choose an AC hairdryer with around 2,000w . Diffusers : Curly lock ? Choose a hairdryer with a diffuser attachment to tame curl with a gentler blast of air , meaning less frizz . For that super sleek look , a hair straightener be a must . Straighteners allow you to create a range of style poker straight , wave , curl , shape and body . Most straightener come with ceramic-coated plate which run over your hair easily , leave behind shiny , silky tress with no risk of burn . Since these must-have device first hit the market , heat-up time have reduce to as little at 30 second with temperature reach 200C plus . Electric toothbrushes Back to top Electric toothbrushes be an easy way to achieve a clean , whiter smile and they require less arm strength too ! Most electric toothbrush come with a built-in timer meaning youre more likely to brush your teeth for long , thus remove more plaque and keep those sparkler pearly white . Fitted with small brush head to reach the tricky spot , the head be gentle on your gum than manual brushing . Oscillating brush rotate in both direction with standard electric toothbrush rotate in just one direction . Speeds range from 1,000 vibration per minute to a dizzying 27,000 per minute , but these be more expensive . Men 's electric shaver Back to top Looking for a quick and close shave ? Then it time to invest in an electric shaver . They offer a fast , easy and essentially cheap alternative to a wet shave . But with different shaver style , head and power it can be hard to make the right choice . And then , of course , there personal choice ; whether you need a shaver for speed or different hair type , thick or fine , this guide will help find the best one for you . What to look for : The main advantage of an electric shaver be convenience . They take the hassle out of use water and shave gel , and you wont need to stick toilet paper to your face either a they come with a safety cap that stop you cut yourself . If youre a shave-and-go type man , then the main thing to look for be an electric shaver with a long battery life , one speed and one shave head , offering a no-fuss approach to your daily grooming . Coarse hair : Your best option be a shaver with a rotating triple head which will work to the shape of your face . Double blade will give you a closer , smoother shave . Sole plat : Basic plate be make from aluminium , but could become sticky over time , so look for coat non-stick plate . For a smooth glide , choose stainless steel plat or ceramic plate which disperse the heat evenly over the plate . Styles : Single foi : Basic shaver have a single foil design with straight or rotate blade . Theyre fine for fine hair and should cause minimal irritation . Double foil : For a quicker shave opt for a double foil model which have two move head and will give a smoother shave than a single foil shaver . These be more suit to men with thicker facial hair . Triple foil : If you like to leave your beard to grow for a few day before decide to whip it off , a triple foil model will be ideal for you . With three cut element , it give you an extremely close shave and will even reach those tricky bit . Power : Shavers which only work with a plug point be less flexible than rechargeable model a youre restrict by the length of the cord and will always need a power socket . Rechargeable model be the most common , but mains rechargeables be probably more practical a they can be use either when theyre charge or off the battery . Shavers which just run off the battery be more suit for travelling a they will run down quickly with everyday use and replacement battery can be costly . Hair trimmer can be buy separately or some shaver have them in-built . Most shaver come with a beard/precision trimmer which be practical for moustache , side-burns and stubble . Kitchen appliance Back to top Kettles : With kettle likely to stand on your work surface rather than hide away in the cupboard , it important to get the style right to co-ordinate with the rest of your kitchen . So put your foot up while we list the important thing to look for . Cord vs cordless : Most kettle be now cordless so youre not restrict by power point or cord length . And a 360 degree swivel base mean you can place the kettle in any direction , suit left and right-handed people . Cordless kettle be more useful if your power point be not near your sink . Capacity : Ranging between 1.5 to 1.7 litre , most kettle on full capacity will make between 6 to 7 cup . Remember to only fill it with a much water a you need to keep those electricity bill down . Power : They say a watched kettle never boil . But if you opt for a more powerful model around 3kW itll boil pretty quickly . Weight : Plastic kettle be light and therefore easy to lift but metal and stainless steel be often perceive to be more modern and stylish . Illumination : Most kettle will have a little illuminator to indicate when the kettle be boil . Recently , modern kettle have light up water gauge or even glow transparent body in a variety of colour - add to the style of your kitchen . Theres little bad than wait five minute for a kettle to boil and then realise it be never switch on . Other feature : An anti-limescale filter be the little mesh piece in the sprout of a kettle and it help give you a good taste cuppa by stopping foreign particle enter your cup . Some be built-in with others removable and washable . As some of u can be quite bleary-eyed first thing , a safety cut-off be a useful feature for anyone who ever forget to fill up the kettle before flick the switch . Toasters : Easier , fast and less faff than switch on the grill , toaster be indispensible kitchen gadget . Whether you like your bread lightly toast or fully crisp , toaster come with a variety of setting to golden your doorstep . Size : Two , four , six ... Toasters usually come with two-slice or four-slice slot and some even with six . Families may find , despite the add initial expense , that a four-slice toaster be more convenient . In a variety of style ; plastic , stainless steel and colour , there sure to be one to suit your kitchen decor . Some four-slice toaster come with a setting which allow you to just heat up two slot , if prefer , thus save energy . If you like chunky bread , look for a toaster with deep slot and a big heating element so the top of your toast isnt leave out . Useful feature : Defrost function first thaw out your bread and then toast it so you dont have to alter the browning control setting . And a removable crumb tray make it easy to get rid of all those leave over bit . Look for one with a smooth slide action so the crumb dont end up all over the floor ! To avoid burnt fingertip , choose a toaster with a high-lift function , which be especially ideal for removing small bread such a crumpet and bagel . Reheat : Getting the timing right to match the rest of your pot and pan can be tricky , so a reheat set be handy if you find your toast pop up too quickly . Slow cooker : These handy device be essentially electrically-heated pot , ideal for cooking stew , curry and soup . Giving meat that fall-off-the-bone texture , slow cooker range in size from 1.5 to 7 litre . Smaller pot be good for one-portion meal while family should look for at least a 3-litre capacity . Power : Measured in watt range from 250w to 1,000w - large pot will need more power . A key thing to look at be the setting . Some come with up to three different heat setting , but if you just want to turn it on and leave it , look for one with an automatic or keep warm set . Larger model may not be easy to clean so look for one with a removable internal pot which be dishwasher safe . Stay-cool handle be useful to avoid accident and glass lid let you see how your dinner be get along . Coffee machine : If you really love coffee , instant just wont do . And investing in a quality coffee machine mean you can enjoy the real thing every day . Before buying a coffee machine you need to decide on which type of coffee you prefer ; filter , espresso , latte or cappuccino ; and how much youre go to drink . Prices vary wildly from inexpensive manual machine for occasional use to expensive professional-style unit that wouldnt look out of place at your favourite Italian coffee bar . Percolators : If youre willing to wait for the perfect pot of coffee , a percolator be a good choice . These all-in-one device be simple to use , heating up the water before it be draw up a tube and drip through the coffee ground to create a perfect brew . Filter coffee maker : For ease of use , choose a filter coffee maker . They work by dripping hot water through ground coffee into a glass pot which be keep warm on a hot plate or in a thermos pot and there no need to boil the water first . Six cup or 12 ? : Different filter coffee machine have different capacity , so consider how many cup youre go to need , or want . Some come with permanent filter while others have disposable paper holder . While permanent filter save money in the long-run , disposable filter be clean and less hassle to use . Some also use pod which hold the pre-ground coffee in a foil case which be easy and clean to use , but may be tie to certain brand . Pump or steam ? : Pump machine be more expensive , but give you a good cup of coffee with that add foam for cappuccino lover . They heat the water and a motor-driven pump force it through the coffee ground at the optimum bar pressure . The high the bar pressure ( 14 bar match that of coffee shop ) , the good your coffee will taste . A thermoblock will heat up the water to the correct 85-90C temperature to ensure the coffee bean or ground be not burnt . Steam-pressure machine work by heating the water to boiling point and use the pressure ( steam ) to force the water through the coffee . Ideal if you just make one or two cup of coffee at a time . What to look for ? A good bar pressure be essential if you want a frothy coffee and the better the bar pressure the less bitter your coffee will taste . Aim for around 9 to 11 bar . For quicker boil time look for a more powerful model . Power : The grill , make famous by the evergreen George Foreman , offer a healthier alternative to cooking meat , fish and vegetable . Health grill and bread maker : Simple to use , these grill feature non-stick plate , a drip tray to collect run-off fat , a timer and safety cut-off switch . They come in a variety of size and your choice should be determine by the number of mouth you need to fee . Breadmakers take the hassle out of kneading your own bread and make sure your dough be at the correct consistency . With the bread paddle do all the hard work , theyre quicker too , and you can determine how much salt , for example , go into your bread . Breadmakers usually make 1lb loaf but some have setting to make 1.6 and 2.2lb loaf good for large family . Cheaper model will just have the one loaf size set . The machine can be quite big and bulky so look at the dimension to see how it will fit on your work surface and if you want to wake up to that fresh bread smell , opt for one with a delay start timer . THINGS GO WRONG WE ALL HAVE MISHAPS We Knowhow to Repair & Protect your product DELIVERED , INSTALLED & RECYCLED AT A TIME TO SUIT YOU We Knowhow to get you up and run Customer service Delivery & Recycling Track my Order Installation Services Returns & Cancellations Product Recall Alert Shopping with Currys Order online & collect in store Price Promise Gift Cards Payment & Finance Options Privacy & Cookies We 're here to help Product Care Plans Customer Services Repairs Buying Guides Contact u Store finder Enter your postcode to find your nearest Currys store : Search uk , map , vantage Layer 1 Our other website KNOWHOW | PC World Business | Currys Ireland | Currys Partmaster | Currys TechTalk | About DSG Retail Ltd Corporate site | Careers | PR & Media DSG Retail Limited 2014 . DSG Retail Ltd , Maylands Avenue , Hemel Hempstead , HP2 7TG . Company registration number : 504877 , VAT number : 226 6599 33 Terms & Conditions 