Choosing Between Gas and Electric Restaurant Equipment | KaTom Restaurant Supply Sign In My Cart Toggle navigation RESTAURANT SUPPLY , INC . ico SEARCH Contact Us : 800.541.8683 Live Chat Help Restaurant Equipment Kitchen Supplies Tabletop Countertop Furniture Janitorial Bar Supplies Specialty Shop by Brand Learn KaTom Restaurant Supply Restaurant Equipment Choosing Between Gas and Electric Restaurant Equipment Gas Cooking Equipment Wins on Price , but Electric Units Can Bring the Heat For countless year , one of the major debate among those in the food service industry have be over gas-fired versus electric restaurant equipment . While gas have traditionally be the winner of that struggle , a evidence by how many restaurant opt to use it , electric have some die-hard adherent who be willing to stand up for their source . Though gas be a foregone conclusion for many because of the benefit it provide , there be plenty of pro for electric heat . With most cook equipment available in model that accept both heat source , the debate be now far beyond whether you want a gas stove or an electric stove . Thats why we present these list of benefit to each type of power source , but first Electric Rates vs. Natural Gas Prices One of the major reason gas have be more popular in commercial kitchen be that it typically cheap than electricity when you compare how many BTU each can produce . For natural gas , that mean about 1.03 million BTU per thousand cubic foot , while a kilowatt hour of electricity be capable of produce 3,412 BTU . A gallon of the less popular propane , most commonly sell a LPG in America , have 91,000 BTU potential . So , to compare apple to apple , we need to understand that 301 kilowatt hour , 11.3 gallon of propane , and a thousand cubic foot of gas be equal in term of heating power . According to U.S. Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) data from April 2013 , the national average price 1 of a thousand cubic foot of natural gas be $ 10.44 . The price have generally trend downward 2 in recent year , with a few peak in high-demand year , a exploration and production have increase supply . Propane , which be use by restaurant equipment note a LP , have also experience price stabilization and decrease a speculator have decouple it value from that of crude oil . For March 2013 , the price of propane 3 in the United States average $ 2.49 per gallon . The EIA also report the national average for electricity in April 2013 be about 10 cent per kilowatt hour for commercial customer . The price of electricity 4 have be pretty steady in most area , though rate have steadily increase a new environmental regulation and other factor have boost the cost of production . EIA data indicate the national annual average retail price of a kilowatt hour 5 of electricity for commercial customer go from 8.03 cent in 2003 to 10.12 in 2012 . Using the equivalent measure of a thousand cubic foot of gas to 11.3 gallon of propane to 301 kilowatt hour , the average cost for electricity at 10 cent per kilowatt hour would be just under $ 30 for the same BTU a $ 10.44 worth of natural gas would provide . Propanes rate would be about $ 28 for the same amount of heating . The difference between electric and natural gas cost may not be enough to convince a home chef to switch from an electric stove to a more expensive gas stove and pay for gas line to be run to his or her home . After all , how many million BTU do the average home chef use in a month ? However , that comparison show a huge difference for a commercial kitchen . Having say that , let look at where electric restaurant equipment come out ahead . Benefits of Electricity in Commercial Cooking Equipment The equipment be typically cheap and easy to install , since it mostly involve put a plug into a socket . Electric be generally more efficient than gas , since all the energy come in be convert directly into heat . With gas , some of the vapor be lose . Electric ovens tend to cook more evenly than gas-fired one . Theres some debate about this , but there ample research to suggest there less heat escape during operation from electric source , which should mean a cooler kitchen and low HVAC bill . Unlike with gas , there essentially no danger youll have an electricity leak that could put noxious fume into your kitchen and din area . Advantages of Gas-Fired Restaurant Equipment The knob directly control the flow of gas and , thus , the intensity of the flame , you have more precise control over how hot each eye be . That should yield easy and good cooking . With gas , the flame light immediately and begin produce heat , which mean there no wait for an element to heat up a with electric cooking equipment . A power outage be typically no trouble for gas appliance , so you can keep serve when electricity-based kitchen be shut down . Since the flame go out immediately when the control be turn to Off , these unit cool down more quickly than electric unit . That mean less ambient heat produce during idle period . Thanks to the way the more spread-out heat from the flame move , gas restaurant equipment heat the bottom and side of pan . That mean it work fast and more efficiently . 1 . Natural gas pricing information 2 . Natural gas pricing trend 3 . Propane price data 4 . State-by-state electricity pricing 5 . Electricity price trend LEARN The KaTom Learning Center contain resource to help you make educate buying , usage , and maintenance decision . BLOG Follow the KaTom Blog for interview spotlight , industry news and trend , how-to article and guide , and popular product review . BE IN THE KNOW Receive exclusive saving on your favorite brand . Professional Chef Home Chef Shopping With KaTom Restaurant Equipment Kitchen Supplies Tabletop Countertop Bar Supplies Furniture Catering & Buffet Janitorial Pizza Supplies Home Chef Shelving & Transport Shop by Brand Sitemap Connect with KaTom Blog Learn Video Library LEARN BLOG Contact Us Return Request Order Tracking My Account 305 KaTom Drive Kodak , TN 37764 Copyright 2001-2015 KaTom Restaurant Supply , Inc. All right reserve . 03/05/2015 7:00pm 