Electric bill skyrocket after smart meter ; opt-out option come , but will cost- OC Watchdog Blog : Orange County Register Subscribe Today Customer Service eRegister Today 's Paper Knowledge Cafe Magazines Unidos Weather Home News Sports Business Entertainment Life Opinion Obits Register Connect CARS JOBS SHOP HOMES CLASSIFIEDS Cities Crime Traffic Education Watchdog Science Government California Nation Weather More Throwback Thursday : It take a village , or several , to build Irvine In battle vs. smog , USC study show child 's health , local air improve in tandem Ticket with five Powerball number sell in Westminster 'Who kill Ernesto ? ' : Family of man shot by police protest , disrupt Santa Ana council meeting ; Mexico also condemn the shooting Angels Notes : Garrett Richards almost ready for next step , Matt Joyce at cleanup , Josh Rutledge get first shot at 2B Final : Dodgers 6 , White Sox 1 Miller : Tony Parker must be big man on campus for UCLA basketball UCLA do away with drama , top USC Building on snow , sun and fun : Mammoth Resorts plan upgrade for Bear Mountain and Snow Summit to boost year-round activity Can you taste the difference ? Why Girl Scout cookies be make differently for O.C . vs. L.A . San Clemente housing consultant sell firm Loan mod and refi 's : You can do both 'The Sleeping Beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in Costa Mesa Vince Vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick Brandi Carlile compellingly raw at Troubadour showcase Orange County surf rock pioneer and 'Pipeline ' guitarist Brian Carman of the Chantays die at 69 Top news News Electric bill skyrocket after smart meter ; opt-out option come , but will cost April 5 , 2012 Updated Aug. 21 , 2013 1:17 p.m . By Laura Barron-Lopez Facebook Twitter Email Comments PRINT SEND PDF The electric bill in January 2011 be $ 150.23 , the usual cost of the monthly bill and typical for this small Laguna Woods home . One year late , the bill be $ 514.34 . What could have possibly cause this $ 364 increase a leap of 243 percent ? A new state-of-the art Jacuzzi ? Millions of holiday light to rival Disneyland ? No , Pat Wiseman say . The only change to his parent ' home be a new smart meter from the electric company , Southern California Edison . It have be instal at the end of October . Smart meter be part of the new Edison SmartConnect grid . They connect to a secure wireless network that SCE say give customer great control to manage their usage even from a cellphone , many mile from home . Smart meter be also read remotely , so employee do n't have to trek to the house to read the meter . By the end of this year , 5 million smart meter be slat to be instal in Southern California . SCE be almost do instal them in Orange County but there may soon be a way to opt out ( at a price ) . It be after his mother 's smart meter be instal that Wiseman start see problem . Between Nov. 10 and Dec. 13 , the usage for the 1,600 square-foot home be 62.4 kilowatt hour , he say . Between Dec. 13 and Jan. 12 , it be 102.1 kilowatt hour . Wiseman argues that there 's no reason the consumption should have change , because his mother 's habit do not . She live alone , spends most of her time in her bed , and have one 24- hour care person with her . He lay the blame for the astound increase squarely on the new meter . [ caption id= '' attachment_152485 '' align= '' alignleft '' width= '' 300 '' caption= '' Edisons SmartConnect campaign show a cheerful consumer . '' ] [ /caption ] When we first speak to SCE , a spokesman say there be no way of tell if there be accuracy problem without examine the individual usage of the consumer . But the company say it have not have complaint about accuracy . Instead , he say , consumer say the new meter improve their ability to track their usage . However , since December of 2008 , the California Public Utilities Commission have receive 946 complaint on SCE 's smart meter , range from concern over health danger to privacy and bill issue , to simply not want the smart meter at all . The health issue people complain about include dizziness , nausea and headache symptom some say be cause by the radio frequency ( RF ) radiation that the smart meter emit a well a worry about be expose to possible carcinogen . SCE have compare the strength of smart meter ' RF signal to other household device , and say that a cellphone next to your ear emits a signal that 's tremendously strong than a smart meter three foot away ( the cellphone signal be 4,960 microwatts per-centimeter-squared high than the smart meter 's , to be exact ) . Due to the complaint and various citizen action group ban together against smart meter , the state Public Utilities Commission will consider an opt-out proposal for consumer at it April 19 meeting . The proposal be put forward March 15 , and lay out the option on how to best institute an opt-out program , a well a the cost . Choosing to opt out will not be free of charge . The Public Utilities Commission's Division of Ratepayer Advocates and the Consumer Power Alliance be push for an analog meter opt-out option , because that 's what Pacific Gas and Electric Co . have to do for it customer in Northern California . > 1 2 Next Page Most popular Hoag and Fountain Valley hospital be favorite for birth tourism , Homeland Security off Updated : One dead , another hurt after move RV catch fire in Huntington Beach Can you taste the difference ? Why Girl Scout cookies be make differently for O.C . vs. L . Ticket with five Powerball number sell in Westminster 'Who kill Ernesto ? ' : Family of man shot by police protest , disrupt Santa Ana council me User Agreement Comments be encourage , but you must follow our User Agreement Keep it civil and stay on topic . No profanity , vulgarity , racial slur or personal attack . People who harass others or joke about tragedy will be block . By posting your comment , you agree to allow Orange County Register Communications , Inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional Register publication without any notification or payment . Throwback Thursday : It take a village , or several , to build Irvine In battle vs. smog , USC study show child 's health , local air improve in tandem Ticket with five Powerball number sell in Westminster 'Who kill Ernesto ? ' : Family of man shot by police protest , disrupt Santa Ana council meeting ; Mexico also condemn the shooting Angels Notes : Garrett Richards almost ready for next step , Matt Joyce at cleanup , Josh Rutledge get first shot at 2B Final : Dodgers 6 , White Sox 1 Miller : Tony Parker must be big man on campus for UCLA basketball UCLA do away with drama , top USC Building on snow , sun and fun : Mammoth Resorts plan upgrade for Bear Mountain and Snow Summit to boost year-round activity Can you taste the difference ? Why Girl Scout cookies be make differently for O.C . vs. L.A . San Clemente housing consultant sell firm Loan mod and refi 's : You can do both 'The Sleeping Beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in Costa Mesa Vince Vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick Brandi Carlile compellingly raw at Troubadour showcase Orange County surf rock pioneer and 'Pipeline ' guitarist Brian Carman of the Chantays die at 69 Top news Education Middle school student to get space at Arts Alive Festival Bullying take a toll on elementary-age child Judge let stand $ 574 million North O.C . Community College District bond measure Real Estate Loan mod and refi 's : You can do both San Clemente housing consultant sell firm Real estate news : Shorebreak hotel get new owner , operator , GM O.C . Watchdog Deaths and violation : Looking for how a child care provider rate ? California wo n't help you much Watchdog : Secrets cloud contract spending ; Bell have become a good example of transparency County official battle over audit control Health Care Ask Emily : Health insurance enrollment low among small-business worker in the face of underwhelming tax credit incentive Former Allergan suitor buy N.C. firm for $ 10.1 billion OC Metro : Kaiser Permanente navigate crossroad ENTERTAINMENT 'The Sleeping Beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in Costa Mesa Vince Vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick Brandi Carlile compellingly raw at Troubadour showcase Food Cathy Thomas : Some chef of the top 75 best restaurant in O.C . share their recipe Can you taste the difference ? Why Girl Scout cookies be make differently for O.C . vs. L.A . Las Vegas burger trump Charlie Palmer : Holstein 's Shakes & Buns replacing South Coast Plaza restaurant TELEVISION Should you watch or skip 'American Crime ' ? Oprah 's come to Hollywood ! And she 's bring Harpo Studios with her Watch this , skip that : 'Marvel 's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D . ' Special Sections OCHOME : A Fine Romance OCHOME : Cottage by the Sea OCHOME : The Ultimate Guest Retreat Featured Multimedia CARTOONS Today 's cartoon : Rethinking admission to UC COLLEGE HOOPS UCLA do away with drama , top USC TRENDING ON TWITTER Bread Zeppelin ? Madonut ? Trending on Twitter : # FoodieBandNames FOCUS PAGE FOCUS : A look at California 's gasoline tax and where the money go TRENDING ON TWITTER Trending on Twitter : The social medium creativity of the # Weaselpecker photo SLIDESHOW 'The Sleeping Beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in Costa Mesa Cars Jobs Homes Deals Classifieds Find a car Dealer Print Specials Find a Dealer News and Research Sell a Car Find a job Employer Tools Interview Online Post a Resume Top Workplaces Find a home Apartments & Rentals Find an Agent Mortgage Center New Homes Find a deal Garage Sales Grocery Coupons Search Coupons Search Ads Search Classifieds Announcements Obituaries Place an Ad Pets Register Connect GET 2 FREE SPACES ON TREASURE ISLAND AT THE OC MARKET PLACE ! WIN A VIP EXPERIENCE FREE ADMISSION TO ORANGE COUNTY MARKET PLACE Programs & Promotions Nominate an Everyday Hero Stay Connected with our E-Mail Newsletters Receive breaking news and newsletter Business Directory More Orange County Businesses Ads by Google Return to Top home news sport business entertainment life travel opinion Real estate Jobs Cars Deals Classifieds Place an Ad ADVERTISE OPTIONS Self Service Place an Online Ad Place a Print Ad Place a Classified Ad Media Kit Advertising Contact Info CONTACT OCREGISTER About Us Careers Contact Us Corrections Customer Service Subscribe Today Upgrade to 7-days Subscriber Services Site Help Site Feedback OCR SERVICES Archives Buy Our Photos California Lottery Deals Register Connect Register in Education Obituaries Facebook Comments FAQs Higher Education Tickets NEWS YOUR WAY Blogs E-Mail Newsletters E-Register Mobile RSS Article Map Site Map Video ADVERTISING Classifieds Cars Deals Jobs Real Estate Place a Classified Ad View our Media Kit PARTNERS KDOC-TV MSNBC Unidos Coast Magazine OC Register Magazine OrangeCounty.com Freedom Printing OC Register Family OC Register Metro Southland Golf Privacy Policy | Site Help | User Agreement | Site Map electric bill skyrocket after smart meter ; opt-out option come , but will cost- oc watchdog blog : orange county register subscribe today customer service eregister today 's paper knowledge cafe magazine unidos weather home news sport business entertainment life opinion obit register connect car job shop home classified city crime traffic education watchdog science government california nation weather more throwback thursday : it take a village , or several , to build irvine in battle vs. smog , usc study show child 's health , local air improve in tandem ticket with five powerball number sell in westminster 'who kill ernesto ? ' : family of man shot by police protest , disrupt santa ana council meeting ; mexico also condemn the shooting angel note : garrett richards almost ready for next step , matt joyce at cleanup , josh rutledge get first shot at 2b final : dodger 6 , white sox 1 miller : tony parker must be big man on campus for ucla basketball ucla do away with drama , top usc build on snow , sun and fun : mammoth resort plan upgrade for bear mountain and snow summit to boost year-round activity can you taste the difference ? why girl scout cookies be make differently for o.c . vs. l.a . san clemente housing consultant sell firm loan mod and refi 's : you can do both 'the sleeping beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in costa mesa vince vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick brandi carlile compellingly raw at troubadour showcase orange county surf rock pioneer and 'pipeline ' guitarist brian carman of the chantays die at 69 top news news electric bill skyrocket after smart meter ; opt-out option come , but will cost april 5 , 2012 updated aug. 21 , 2013 1:17 p.m . by laura barron-lopez facebook twitter email comment print send pdf the electric bill in january 2011 be $ 150.23 , the usual cost of the monthly bill and typical for this small laguna wood home . one year late , the bill be $ 514.34 . what could have possibly cause this $ 364 increase a leap of 243 percent ? a new state-of-the art jacuzzi ? million of holiday light to rival disneyland ? no , pat wiseman say . the only change to his parent ' home be a new smart meter from the electric company , southern california edison . it have be instal at the end of october . smart meter be part of the new edison smartconnect grid . they connect to a secure wireless network that sce say give customer great control to manage their usage even from a cellphone , many mile from home . smart meter be also read remotely , so employee do n't have to trek to the house to read the meter . by the end of this year , 5 million smart meter be slat to be instal in southern california . sce be almost do instal them in orange county but there may soon be a way to opt out ( at a price ) . it be after his mother 's smart meter be instal that wiseman start see problem . between nov. 10 and dec. 13 , the usage for the 1,600 square-foot home be 62.4 kilowatt hour , he say . between dec. 13 and jan. 12 , it be 102.1 kilowatt hour . wiseman argues that there 's no reason the consumption should have change , because his mother 's habit do not . she live alone , spends most of her time in her bed , and have one 24- hour care person with her . he lay the blame for the astound increase squarely on the new meter . [ caption id= '' attachment_152485 '' align= '' alignleft '' width= '' 300 '' caption= '' edison smartconnect campaign show a cheerful consumer . '' ] [ /caption ] when we first speak to sce , a spokesman say there be no way of tell if there be accuracy problem without examine the individual usage of the consumer . but the company say it have not have complaint about accuracy . instead , he say , consumer say the new meter improve their ability to track their usage . however , since december of 2008 , the california public utility commission have receive 946 complaint on sce 's smart meter , range from concern over health danger to privacy and bill issue , to simply not want the smart meter at all . the health issue people complain about include dizziness , nausea and headache symptom some say be cause by the radio frequency ( rf ) radiation that the smart meter emit a well a worry about be expose to possible carcinogen . sce have compare the strength of smart meter ' rf signal to other household device , and say that a cellphone next to your ear emits a signal that 's tremendously strong than a smart meter three foot away ( the cellphone signal be 4,960 microwatts per-centimeter-squared high than the smart meter 's , to be exact ) . due to the complaint and various citizen action group ban together against smart meter , the state public utility commission will consider an opt-out proposal for consumer at it april 19 meeting . the proposal be put forward march 15 , and lay out the option on how to best institute an opt-out program , a well a the cost . choosing to opt out will not be free of charge . the public utility commission's division of ratepayer advocate and the consumer power alliance be push for an analog meter opt-out option , because that 's what pacific gas and electric co . have to do for it customer in northern california . > 1 2 next page most popular hoag and fountain valley hospital be favorite for birth tourism , homeland security off updated : one dead , another hurt after move rv catch fire in huntington beach can you taste the difference ? why girl scout cookies be make differently for o.c . vs. l . ticket with five powerball number sell in westminster 'who kill ernesto ? ' : family of man shot by police protest , disrupt santa ana council me user agreement comment be encourage , but you must follow our user agreement keep it civil and stay on topic . no profanity , vulgarity , racial slur or personal attack . people who harass others or joke about tragedy will be block . by posting your comment , you agree to allow orange county register communication , inc. the right to republish your name and comment in additional register publication without any notification or payment . throwback thursday : it take a village , or several , to build irvine in battle vs. smog , usc study show child 's health , local air improve in tandem ticket with five powerball number sell in westminster 'who kill ernesto ? ' : family of man shot by police protest , disrupt santa ana council meeting ; mexico also condemn the shooting angel note : garrett richards almost ready for next step , matt joyce at cleanup , josh rutledge get first shot at 2b final : dodger 6 , white sox 1 miller : tony parker must be big man on campus for ucla basketball ucla do away with drama , top usc build on snow , sun and fun : mammoth resort plan upgrade for bear mountain and snow summit to boost year-round activity can you taste the difference ? why girl scout cookies be make differently for o.c . vs. l.a . san clemente housing consultant sell firm loan mod and refi 's : you can do both 'the sleeping beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in costa mesa vince vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick brandi carlile compellingly raw at troubadour showcase orange county surf rock pioneer and 'pipeline ' guitarist brian carman of the chantays die at 69 top news education middle school student to get space at art alive festival bully take a toll on elementary-age child judge let stand $ 574 million north o.c . community college district bond measure real estate loan mod and refi 's : you can do both san clemente housing consultant sell firm real estate news : shorebreak hotel get new owner , operator , gm o.c . watchdog death and violation : look for how a child care provider rate ? california wo n't help you much watchdog : secret cloud contract spending ; bell have become a good example of transparency county official battle over audit control health care ask emily : health insurance enrollment low among small-business worker in the face of underwhelming tax credit incentive former allergan suitor buy n.c. firm for $ 10.1 billion oc metro : kaiser permanente navigate crossroad entertainment 'the sleeping beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in costa mesa vince vaughn do some unfunny business in new flick brandi carlile compellingly raw at troubadour showcase food cathy thomas : some chef of the top 75 best restaurant in o.c . share their recipe can you taste the difference ? why girl scout cookies be make differently for o.c . vs. l.a . la vega burger trump charlie palmer : holstein 's shake & bun replacing south coast plaza restaurant television should you watch or skip 'american crime ' ? oprah 's come to hollywood ! and she 's bring harpo studio with her watch this , skip that : 'marvel 's agent of s.h.i.e.l.d . ' special section ochome : a fine romance ochome : cottage by the sea ochome : the ultimate guest retreat featured multimedia cartoon today 's cartoon : rethink admission to uc college hoop ucla do away with drama , top usc trending on twitter bread zeppelin ? madonut ? trending on twitter : # foodiebandnames focus page focus : a look at california 's gasoline tax and where the money go trending on twitter trend on twitter : the social medium creativity of the # weaselpecker photo slideshow 'the sleeping beauty ' delivers spectacle and pageantry in costa mesa car job home deal classified find a car dealer print special find a dealer news and research sell a car find a job employer tool interview online post a resume top workplace find a home apartment & rental find an agent mortgage center new home find a deal garage sale grocery coupon search coupon search ad search classified announcement obituary place an ad pet register connect get 2 free space on treasure island at the oc market place ! win a vip experience free admission to orange county market place program & promotion nominate an everyday hero stay connected with our e-mail newsletter receive breaking news and newsletter business directory more orange county business ad by google return to top home news sport business entertainment life travel opinion real estate job car deal classified place an ad advertise option self service place an online ad place a print ad place a classified ad medium kit advertise contact info contact ocregister about u career contact u correction customer service subscribe today upgrade to 7-days subscriber service site help site feedback ocr service archive buy our photo california lottery deal register connect register in education obituary facebook comment faq high education ticket news your way blog e-mail newsletter e-register mobile r article map site map video advertising classified car deal job real estate place a classified ad view our medium kit partner kdoc-tv msnbc unidos coast magazine oc register magazine orangecounty.com freedom printing oc register family oc register metro southland golf privacy policy | site help | user agreement | site map 