Boulder Colorado USA Enacts Carbon Tax : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social Boulder Colorado USA Enacts Carbon Tax John Laumer Business / Corporate Responsibility November 18 , 2006 Share on Facebook Per the New York Times , `` The tax , to take effect on April 1 , will be base on the number of kilowatt-hours use . Officials say it will add $ 16 a year to an average homeowner 's electricity bill and $ 46 for business '' ... '' City official say the revenue from the tax an estimate $ 6.7 million by 2012 , when the goal be to have reduce carbon emission by 350,000 metric ton would be collect by the main gas and electric utility , Xcel Energy , and funnel through the city 's Office of Environmental Affairs . The tax be to pay for the `` climate action plan , '' effort to `` increase energy efficiency in home and building , switch to renewable energy and reduce vehicle mile travel , ... '' Renewable energy use apparently get a tax rebate : an indirect incentive to shift power buy preference . Should this be emulate by other municipality in well wind-endowed state , the power of local politics to influence national one will be establish . We be wonder which aspect of local culture bring this measure forward . Was it primarily the famous 'college town liberal ' aspect of Boulder ? Poking around for an image to use in this post , we notice that the National Center for Atmospheric Research ( NCAR ) , [ picture here ] a `` non-governmental U.S.-based institute whose state mission be `` explore and understand our atmosphere and it interaction with the Sun , the ocean , the biosphere , and human society '' '' be in Boulder ! Wikipedia report that `` NCAR 's Kevin E. Trenberth be one of the lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 's new Fourth Assessment Report . `` These two factor do n't seem adequate to explain such courage and innovation on the part of City Council . Then it occur to u that demographic change might figure in . You know : all those Californians that move to Colorado , import and spread a 'we do it first ' kind of climate courage . ===UPDATE=== Be sure to look at the comment for some critique and reference to more accurate information . facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW Farm in a box produce an acre 's worth of crop in a shipping container Without Bound : Doc share fascinate story of mobile living nomad ( Video ) 24 profoundly beautiful word that describe nature and landscape DIY Beekeeping : Download and print a smart beehive kit A good shower : Save water , energy , and money with a thermostatic shut-off valve The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late Summer home build with salvaged material be a `` treehouse for adult '' So you use oil ? No , that do n't make you a hypocrite The Rise of Disc Golf : A Greener Alternative to 'Ball Golf' LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 