Solar Photovoltaic Systems BC Hydro Regeneration | 50 Hi UserFirst My Profile Personal Information Subscriptions & Alerts Change Password Log out Log in or Create a MyHydro Profile Search About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us Accounts & Billing Power Smart Energy in B.C . News , Events & Media In Your Community Safety & Outages Residential Close Rebates & Savings Fridge Buy-Back Appliances Lighting Home Electronics Home Energy Rebate Offer Success Stories Guides & Tips Green Your Home Green Your Life Green Your Community Team Power Smart Contact Team Power Smart Appliance & Lighting Calculator Power Smart New Homes Power Smart Home Features Power Smart for Low-Income Households Energy Conservation Assistance Program Energy Saving Kit Offer Tracking Your Electricity Consumption Home Loan Pilot Program ( Colwood ) Business Close Types of business customer Programs & Incentives Power Smart Partner Program Power Smart Express Project Incentives ( Industrial ) Strategic Energy Management ( Industrial ) New Home Program New Construction Program Energy Efficient Technologies & Tips Tools & Resources Business Program Eligibility Tool Track Your Business Consumption Success Stories Business Energy Advisors Load Management Demonstration Project Power Smart Alliance Close Program Information Power Smart Express Self-Serve Incentive Program Commercial Partners Industrial Partners New Construction Program New Plant Design Program Updates Membership Contractors Distributors Consulting Engineers Become an Affiliate About Alliance Referrals Training & Events Common Questions & Contact Information News & Features Home Power Smart Residential Guides & Tips Green Your Home Whole Home Efficiency Solar Photovoltaic Systems Solar Photovoltaic Systems Solar PV system at home Learn about the affordability , cost saving and environmental impact to consider when instal solar panel to generate electricity at home . How solarPhotovoltaic ( PV ) system work Solar PV system be comprise mainly of solar panel , inverter , breaker and mount equipment . A solar PVpanel generate power by converting sunlight to direct current ( DC ) electricity . Inverters be then use to convert the DC power to AC power for your home use . There be two main type of Solar PV system : Grid-tied system , which fee AC power directly to the local grid Off-grid system , which store DC power in battery for late use Its important to note that any grid-tied system require complex electrical connection and must be approve by BC Hydro before installation to ensure safety and effective operation . Learn about BC Hydro 's net metering program , which be design for residential and commercial customer who wish to connect a small electricity generate unit to the BC Hydro distribution system . See also our page our information on Solar Thermal Systems . Affordability The cost of instal solar PV system have decline steadily over the last decade a a result of technology improvement and more efficient system yield a high power output . In B.C. , a 1 kW solar PV system , south face and tilt with no shading , will generate about 1,200 kWh per year or about 30,000 kWh over it 25 year lifetime . This be take into account an industry average solar panel efficiency degradation rate of 0.5 % per year . At a turnkey installation cost of about $ 3,000 , it would take you over 25 year to recoup your investment at today average electricity rate . In remote location where there be no grid to tie into for power , off-grid solar PV system can be use to store power in battery which can be use throughout the day or even at night . In B.C. , off-grid system make for a sound investment when instal in location where alternative power source such a diesel generator be require . Batteries be obviously an add cost to an off-grid system and , depend on the type of battery use , they require regular maintenance and/or replacement during the system lifecycle . Cost saving Since sunlight be free , the cost of produce power for a domestic solar PV system be limit to the cost of maintenance , which be relatively low . Solar PV panel typically do not need to be replace unless physically damage or malfunction . Panels only require clean about twice a year , to clear any debris . To achieve real saving with a solar PV system in today market , speak with a professional system designer to help you understand the potential to produce reliable solar power at your site location . Health & comfort Solar PV system be static and silent system that can generate clean energy for your home use . They can be instal on your home rooftop with minimal building impact and be virtually hide from sight . Environmental consideration Solar panel be make mostly of glass and aluminum , which can be mostly recover and reuse , either in new PV panel or other product . Some solar PV manufacturer will take back old or damaged panel for recycle . Batteries for off-grid system can have a negative impact on the environment if not dispose of or recycle properly . There be designate recycle depot for battery to ensure minimal environmental impact . Other consideration Before instal a solar system on your home roof , consider your roof current condition and if rework be need anytime in the near future . Solar PV panel require little maintenance and only need to be clean at least twice a year to ensure the panel be absorb maximum sunlight at all time . Dirt , dust , bird droppings and snow can drastically affect the output of each solar panel . Mounting solar PV panel can be complicate . They need to be mount in a specific orientation and in an area with clear sunlight and no shadow to ensure optimal performance . Be aware of nearby object or building that can potentially cast a shadow on the solar panel at some point throughout the day . A professional system designer can simulate a model for your specific location to estimate annual yield and loss due to shade . Off-grid solar PV system Off-grid system be more expensive due to the add cost of the battery bank and charge controller . Battery bank be one of the high lifecycle cost of an off-grid solar PV system a they require regular maintenance and/or replacement to ensure optimum system performance and longevity . Certain battery type such a absorb glass mat ( AGM ) require no maintenance and be well suit for solar PV system . Depending on the type use , battery have a life span of anywhere from 5 to 10 year . Speak with a professional to understand your battery option for your specific application . Off-grid system need to be size appropriately to ensure that the battery bank be be use at it maximum capacity throughout the year . Consider hybrid solar PV/diesel generator system for remote location to ensure an adequately size solar PV system and reliable power even during long period of cloudy weather condition . FAQ Can I install a solar PV system myself ? Installing a solar PV system can be complicate , especially for roof mount system . Solar panel be essentially make of glass and need to be handle with care . Mounting solar panel on your roof should be do by a roof system professional to ensure that no damage be do to the building exist weather proof during installation . For optimum performance , the solar panel must be instal in a specific orientation and location take many other factor into account to ensure safety and maximum power output . Connecting a solar PV system to the grid require complex electrical connection which need to be approve by BC Hydro . We recommend hire a professional solar PV system installer to ensure that all necessary permit be obtain and that all safety measure be in place before the system be energize . Can a solar PV system generate power on cloudy or rainy day ? As long a there be natural day light , a solar PV system will continue to generate power even on cloudy and rainy day . However , a solar PV system will not generate it peak power unless under direct , unobstructed sun light . How much space do I need to install a solar PV system ? A solar PV array size depends on site condition and location . Locations with less than optimal condition require a large solar array than site with optimal condition , take into account geographic location and orientation , a well a shade condition . In B.C. , a 1kW solar PV array would require about 7 8 square metre of south face free space . A professional system installer can help you estimate the solar potential of your home . Whole Home Efficiency Home a System Get an Audit Upgrade Ventilation Smaller Home Energy-Efficient Home Solar Photovoltaic Systems Solar Thermal Systems See also BC Hydro net metering program Solar panel 'eliminate ' BC Hydro bill at Dawson Creek office building Sun-powered sidewalk reduce need for light About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us My Profile 