George Osborne 's CO2 tax will double UK electricity bill - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Friday 06 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Blogs Columnists Personal View Telegraph View Letters Cartoon Archive My Telegraph Politics George Osborne 's CO2 tax will double UK electricity bill There 's a nasty shock in store for the British householder when a new 'carbon ' tax come into force Didcot power station , one of Britain 's large , will have to stop burning coal in March 2013 Photo : REX FEATURES By Christopher Booker 7:00PM BST 29 Sep 2012 Comments Fast approaching , if largely unnoticed , be yet another massive shock the Government have in store for u with it weirdly distorted energy policy . It be surprise to see what an abnormally high proportion of the electricity need to keep our light on ha lately be come from coal-fired power station . Last Wednesday evening , for instance , this be over 50 per cent , with only 1.3 per cent come from wind power . Yet by next March , we learn , five of our large coal-fired plant , capable of supplying a fifth of our average power need , be to be shut down , much early than expect , under an EU anti-pollution directive . One reason why these plant be be hammer through their remain quota of hour allow by the EU be that a new UK tax come into force next April , which aim to make fossil-fuel power significantly more expensive . In 2010 , George Osborne announce his intention to impose , from April 2013 , a carbon floor price of 16 on every tonne of CO2 emit by British industry , rise to 30 a tonne by 2020 and 70 a tonne by 2030 . An explicit purpose of this tax be to make the cost of electricity from fossil fuel so uncompetitive compare with renewables that it will , in the Treasurys word , drive 3040 billion of investment into low carbon source such a wind and nuclear . On paper , the effect of Osbornes new tax on our electricity bill look devastate . Using the late figure from the Department of Energy and Climate Change ( DECC ) , our power plant burn 40 million tonne of coal in 2011 , emit 116 million tonne of CO2 . They also generate 175,000 gigawatt hour from gas , at just over half a tonne of CO2 per gigawatt . At 16 a tonne , this CO2 would cost 3.5 billion on top of our total current wholesale electricity cost of some 19 billion . Thus the new impost would represent nearly 20 per cent add to our electricity bill next year , and would almost double them by 2030 . Some of this , however , we already pay through the EUs Emissions Trading System ( ETS ) , which count towards our 16 floor price . Osbornes calculation in 2010 be that , initially , we would have to chip in less than an additional 2 per tonne to make up the 16 price . ( The ETS price at that time be predict to continue rise towards 40 . ) Since then , however , with fall demand due to the EUs recession , the price of EU carbon permit have fall dramatically . To reach the initial 16 level , the Treasury say we will now have to pay nearly another 5 , make our electricity significantly more expensive . But since it make that guess the EU price have slip still further , to well under 6 leave a gap of 10 a tonne to be make up by Osbornes tax , rapidly rise every year thereafter . Related Articles We give up on British coal at our peril 09 Jan 2013 The green energy mirage will cost the earth 05 Mar 2013 Thus , to meet that tax level in the year after 2013 , we in Britain will have to pay electricity bill soar to a level far high than any others in Europe . All this be to promote the building of thousand more heavily subsidise windmill , which will in turn require u to build more gas-fired power station to provide back-up for the constant fluctuation in wind speed . And these will be pay Mr Osbornes fast-rising tax on all the CO2 they emit , with the bill to be pick up by the rest of u on a scale which , within 18 year , could alone almost double the cost of our electricity . In short , the Treasury have make an incredibly damage miscalculation . Even if there be little chance that our Energy and Climate Change Secretary , Ed Davey , could get his head round such lunacy , perhaps someone might lay out for Mr Osborne the bill that his delusional new tax be go to land u all with . The great Arctic ice scare melt away a Antarctic ice hit record high In September 2007 , when the summer melt reduce Arctic ice to it low level since satellite record begin in 1979 , there be hysterical prediction that within five year , thanks to runaway global warming , Arctic summer ice would have vanish completely . When Nasa satellite show last month that this year melt be about to break even that 2007 record , the same hysteria recur . All the usual suspect , from the BBCs Roger Harrabin and The Guardian to Greenpeace and WWF , pile in to proclaim that the end be nigh . Prof Peter Wadhams , that tireless alarmist , intone that the final collapse be now happen and will probably be complete by 2015/16 . But then , a the sea recently begin to refreeze , Nasa itself put up a video show how a severe cyclone in early August have wreak havoc on the ice cover , push vast amount of it into warmer water far south where it melt . ( Reuters headline it report : Nasa say Arctic cyclone play 'key role in record ice melt . ) A Nasa surface temperature graph have long show that the Arctic be considerably warm in the late 1930s than it have ever be since . Furthermore , what the warmist scaremonger always forget to tell u be that polar ice at the other end of the world have be reach record high in recent year . Last week , Antarcticas sea ice area be only just short of the great extent ever record at either pole . A graph on the science blog Watts Up With That , chart the combined global sea ice area over the past 33 year , show the overall extent have remain virtually constant ever since 1979 . But isnt the point about this warming that it be mean to be global ? Dont expose aid corruption or DfID will fire you One man who have follow with particular interest The Sunday Telegraphs exposure of waste and corruption in aid programme sponsor by the Department for International Development be Howard Horsley , whom I write about here in August 2005 . In 1999 , have won plaudit a headmaster of one of the tough comprehensive school in Grimsby , Mr Horsley go to Ghana to run the big educational programme DfID have ever fund . He be horrify to see evidence of corruption on all side ( in particular , a sum of 18 million sent out to Ghana have simply vanish ) . Encouraged by the new Public Interest Disclosure Act , the so-called whistleblower charter , he report his suspicion back to London . Coming to London himself , however , Mr Horsley meet with a response only too familiar to whistleblower . He be astonish to be tell by senior DfID official that he be to be sack , for reason they refuse to disclose . Returning to Ghana to gather evidence , he find that , on order from DfID , his office lock have be change and his computer record wipe . Back in London , he find door slam in his face by every senior official and politician he approach . The only one who listen be the head of the National Audit Office . His official , sent to Ghana , confirm that what Mr Horsley have report be true but he say he could take no action . Eventually Mr Horsley tell his story to his MP , Austin Mitchell , who confirm the extent of the official cover-up and lay it out in a trenchant speech to the Commons . He be rebuff by a junior DfID minister , who merely respond that DfID be repute to be the top-performing UK Government department . When Mr Horsleys present MP , Philip Dunne , raise the scandal in the Commons again , in 2010 , he be similarly ignore . Only now , with The Sunday Telegraphs campaign , have the story re-emerged . Mr Horsley have write to Justine Greening , DfIDs new Secretary of State , hop she will look into his case a a glaring example of the corruption and waste she say she be determine to root out . She may find she be take on more with those DfID official than she know . More mean less to Maude While the slow-motion train wreck of the eurozone continue , the 14.4 billion our Government borrow in August set a new record for that month , confirm our public spending deficit ( the one the BBC try to ignore ) a the high in Europe . In July , when I ask how Francis Maude ( leave ) could claim he be slash the Government deficit , after month when it have be have to borrow more than 4 billion a week , the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister instantly demand a correction . The Government , it insist , be indeed cut the deficit , even though it be still rise a point repeat by Mr Maude himself in a letter we publish the follow Sunday . To claim that the Government be cut it deficit , when the gap between it spending and it income grow ever great , sound like the kind of thing that Alice hear after stepping through that look glass . Comment Energy Coal Emissions Columnists Christopher Booker In Comment 25 year of Matt Top News Galleries Snowmageddon 2.0 In pic : Freezing weather brings US to a standstill Comments Behind Iran 's close curtain Celebrity sighting Revealed : The drink you do n't know you could order at Starbucks From second hand boot to ex-Army tank : Britain 's military surplus for sale Crufts 2015 : the world 's big dog show Kim Jong-un 's new hairdo Who make our team of the week ? Pictures of the day Shed of the Year 2015 Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Your Favourite Columnists Boris Johnson | Charles Moore Dan Hodges | Iain Martin Fraser Nelson | Allison Pearson Mary Riddell | James Kirkup Philip Johnston | Janet Daley Geoffrey Lean | Christopher Booker Con Coughlin | Norman Tebbit Christopher Howse | Bryony Gordon Alan Cochrane | Jim White Vicki Woods | Rowan Pelling Nigel Farndale | Alasdair Palmer Jemima Lewis | Allister Heath Comment Video The Royal Marines ' 350th Anniversary Life under Obama suck . And these number prove it Ukip 's rise in five key moment Grisham : we 've 'gone nut ' with locking up 'sex offenders' The must have political cheat sheet for everyone who be anyone in Westminster Galleries , Quizzes and Games Meet the ten live recipient of the Victoria Cross Lord Lucan 's disappearance , and other unsolved mystery Apple-1 and Darwin 's barnacle : Bonhams ' History of Science sale in picture Which be Britain 's most beautiful cathedral city ? When political photo-ops go terribly wrong Politicians and the art of the wardrobe malfunction More from the web Advertisement More from the web Comment Most Viewed TODAY PAST WEEK PAST MONTH Letters : Planning a purpose-built replacement for the Houses of Parliament Mohammed Emwazi have only himself to blame Letters : The cruelty of coerce pensioner into downsize their home Dr Rajendra Pachauri : the clown of climate change have go Weaselly understand Dr Rajendra Pachauri : the clown of climate change have go Forget MPs and 'cabs for hire the green lobby be already at the wheel Boris Nemtsov murder : Putin now govern mostly through terror and propaganda Letters : Broadcast excuse for British jihadi betray a complete lack of sensitivity Letters : Unless Britains defence be secure how can anything else be safe ? The Telegraph 's promise to our reader Climategate , the sequel : How we be STILL be trick with flaw data on global warming Three EU dream that have turn into nightmare Hilary Mantels Thomas Cromwell be all wrong , but do it matter ? Dr Rajendra Pachauri : the clown of climate change have go MORE Moderation FAQs How we moderate reader comment Advertisement More from The Telegraph SPONSORED FEATURES Best of Australia Australias top 10 wildlife encounter View Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge View Money Transfers Is this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? View Back to top HOME News World News Obituaries Travel Sport Football Cricket Fantasy Cheltenham Culture Motoring Dating Finance Personal Finance Economics Markets Fashion Comment Blogs My Telegraph Letters Technology Gardening Telegraph Journalists Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Telegraph Shop Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast 