EMF Radiation Shielding Devices for Smart Meter buy for sale EMF radiation shield smart utility electric meter discount surplus bargain protection effective shielding microwave radiation RF radiofrequency Tel : +1-518-608-6479 LessEMF.com Smart Meter Shielding Best way to protect your self and reduce microwave radiation from Smart Utility Meters -- -- - Navigation ... Choose Your Destination -- -- - Home Contact u GSA Schedule -- EMF Meters & Detectors -- 01 - AC Gaussmeters 02 - DC Gaussmeters 03 - Radiofrequency Meters 04 - Combination Meters 05 - Probes & accessory 06 - Electric Field Meters 07 - Microwave Oven Leakage Meters 08 - IR , UV & Ionizing Radiation Detectors 09 - Educational & Build-It-Yourself Kits 10 - Electrical Sensitivity Items 11 - Ghost Hunting Equipment 12 - More Unique Meters -- EMF Shielding -- 13 - Computer Shields 14 - Cellphone Shields 15 - Smart Meter Shields 16 - Personal Shielding and Garments 17 - Wire Shielding 18 - Dirty Electricity 19 - Electrical Sensitivity Items 20 - Fabrics & Textiles 21 - Plastics & Glass 22 - Shielding Paints 23 - Earthing product & Ground cord 24 - Magnetic Shielding Foil , Plates & Wire -- More EMF Items -- 25 - EMF Books & Videos 26 - Low EMF Appliances 27 - Schumann Devices 28 - Educational Kits Search by Part Number E-mail Fax/mail order form Cart How can I shield my Smart meter ? A Smart meter be a radiofrequency ( RF ) emit device that the utility company have instal on your gas or electric meter . The RF signal emit transmits information back to the utility company about your gas or electric usage . The signal be intermittent , but operate 24/7 . Usually , the utility company will not permit you to completely block this transmission . However , you can shield your body and your living space to minimize the amount of RF exposure you receive . If you be also concern about the magnetic field emission ( due to the presence of electric current ) , see magnetic shielding material and the magnetic shielding FAQ . There be two main category of shield material that can be use : RF reflector and RF absorber An RF reflector will cause the majority of the signal to bounce off , somewhat like a mirror reflect light . It can have very high shielding performance , and in general should be ground for peak efficiency . It will usually offer good shield ( less RF transmission ) than an absorbing material . An RF absorber will absorb the much of the signal , and minimize reflection . The energy absorb be release as a tiny , almost unmeasurable amount of heat . Grounding be usually not need . In both case , SOME amount of RF do get through the shield , a no shield be 100 % effective . You can use double or triple layer of shield to improve performance . So where should I put the shield ? And how much area do I need to cover ? First , the shield must be position BETWEEN you and the source of the radiation . Generally , this mean that the shield will be place on the interior surface of the wall adjacent to the Smart meter . Think about the Smart meter emission a come from a light bulb locate at the meter , and the shield cast a shadow . Cover enough wall so that the people would be in the protective `` shadow '' cast by the shield . Notice the small shield in the floor plan at right . In this example , the majority of the bedroom area be protect , but that be not true for the rest of the living space . So which one be right for your situation ? In a hypothetical world where your Smart meter be the only source of RF radiation , either absorber or reflector would work well . However , in the real world , there will be multiple source of RF radiation . Some of them might be right inside your own home . Some might be come from other direction . In such a situation , if you use a reflect material , it will reflect on BOTH side , and you could end up increase the amount of RF in your living space . On the other hand , if you use an absorber , it will absorb on BOTH side , so you can not increase your exposure . If , you use both material , a reflector on the side closest to the RF source , and an absorber on the side closest to the living space , you get the best of both material ... and the absolute lowest RF transmission . Any small amount of Smart meter signal penetrating the reflector will be absorb by the absorber . Any signal come from the opposite direction will have to pass through the absorber , then reflect off the reflector , and finally pas through the absorber again before it re-enters the living space . This would be a very small amount indeed . SMART METER SHIELD KIT Everything You Need for Effective RF Shielding We get this question a lot : How do I shield my smart meter ? Remember , you want the shield to be place between the source of radiation and the people you wish to protect . And it would be nice if the shield didnt reflect radiation back towards the people . In this kit , you get everything youll need to set up a simple but effective shield for the brain jar beat of the smart meter . It cover an ample area of 8x7 foot and include an RF reflector , an absorber material , mount tape and ground cord . With these 2 layer , almost no radiation can get through and this be easily demonstrate with the proper RF meter . Clear instruction show you how to attach it to the interior of the wall on which the smart meter be mount . You can cover it with any decorative finish you like . Great for both long term or short term ( removable ) situation . Your smart meter be pulse out microwave right now . Shield yours today ! Smart Meter Shield Kit ( Cat . # 1219 ) ... ... ... .. $ 349.95 Need to cover a large area ? You can order additional material : Nickel/Copper RipStop ( Cat . # A1213 ) ... .. $ 12.95 per lin ft MW Absorbing Sheet ( Cat . # A259N ) ... ... ... $ 8.95 per lin ft Which shield material do you recommend ? Reflectors for a wall : Fabric such a Ni/Cu Ripstop be a good choice . Use two layer and be sure to grind them . Paints such a Y-Shield and CuPro-Cote be good choice . Drapes and curtain for window : VeilShield and High Performance Silver Mesh allow good light penetration . Absorber for a wall : Laminated MW Absorber be a convenient , 48 inch wide film that be very low cost and easy to install . You can cover over your shielding material with almost any decorative medium that you like . The shielding should be protect from abrasion , excessive flexing , and moisture . Shielding Garments and Bedding : Find a variety of shielding hat , shirt , glove and more to wear on your body . These unique Swiss fabric can be use to make washable shield bedding and clothing . Use a Faraday canopy to make shield enclosure . A portable Shielded Sleeping Bag be also available . Which meter do you recommend ? We recommend the High Frequency Meter or We recommend the Acoustimeter These 2 meter have fast enough response to measure the short radiation burst . This short video by a customer show installation and shield performance . Personalize Your Smart Meter Message Get your message out with customizable imprint anti-Smart Meter T-Shirts and Bumper Stickers . Many Styles to choose from , Or create your own unique version ! Click image below to order directly . 