5 Energy Efficient Air Conditioners to Keep You Cool : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social 5 Energy Efficient Air Conditioners to Keep You Cool Blythe Copeland ( @ blythecopeland ) Technology / Clean Technology August 11 , 2011 Share on Facebook Photo : A.J . Madison In a perfect , eco-friendly world , we would all stay cool by dabbing crystal , cold stream water on our pressure point and fan ourselves with giant leaf . But in the actual world we live in , much of the United States have be face a record-setting heatwave for week and , for some , there 's only one way to combat it : air conditioning . And , for lot of u , keep your room at a comfortable temperature be safer than battle the heat on your own , especially for kid , pet , and the elderly , and with these energy-efficient air conditioner , you can chill out about your energy use , too . 1 . Friedrich Kuhl Plus The Friedrich Kuhl Plus Series come with one function that 's probably the last thing on your mind : It also act a a heater . Designed to work when temperature drop a low a 50 degree or shoot up as high a 115 degree , it 's a conditioner that will keep your space warm on chilly September night -- while it 's still too warm to heat the whole house -- and cool on stifling August day . The front cover come in six different color , just in case you 're tire of white , and the 9,500 BTU unit be 30 percent more efficient than the government standard . The company also promise `` heavy duty construction '' with part like copper tube , aluminum fin , and commercial-grade motor , so you wo n't have to replace it after this year 's heatwave take it toll . ( Friedrich Kuhl Plus , $ 1,100 ) 2 . Frigidaire Window-Mounted Compact Air Conditioner Photo : Frigidaire At 13 '' x18 '' , this sleek Frigidaire air conditioner be compact enough to fit in even those tiny , third-floor walkup windows , but still offer 8,000 BTUs of cool power to keep a 350-square-foot space comfortable . The remote control that operate the unit also have a thermostat locate on it , so the unit will cool base n the temperature of the room and not just the temperature around the window , and with an EER of 10.8 , the air conditioner be 10 percent more efficient than the government standard . ( Fridgidaire , $ 250 ) 3 . Whirlpool Resource Saver Photo : Appliances Connection The Whirlpool Resource Saver 6300 BTU air conditioner have an EER of 11 , which make it 13 percent more efficient than the requirement , but that 's not it 's only energy-saving feature : the remote and dock system monitor the temperature throughout the room ; sleep mode slowly raise the temperature whole you sleep to conserve energy ; and a 24-hour timer let you come home to a cool house without keeping the A/C on high while you 're at work all day . ( Whirlpool Resource Saver , $ 350 ) 4 . Kenmore Photo : Kenmore While put a small unit in each room help you control the individual temperature , the Kenmore 25,000 BTU air conditioner offer enough cold air to keep the temperature steady in almost your entire house -- it 's rat for space up to 1,600 square foot . The Energy Star-compliant air conditioner include a sleep mode to keep you from pay for cool air all night and the remote-with-thermostat to measure the temperature elsewhere in your home , while the timer let you decide when to start and stop the cooling . It 's 11 percent more efficient than the government standard -- just remember that , since cool air sink , you 'll want to put it upstairs to keep your first floor comfortable during the hot part of the day . ( Kenmore 25,000 BTU , $ 590 ) 5 . GE 115 Volt Room Air Conditioner Photo : GE Appliances The Energy-Star rat GE 115 Volt room air conditioner offer 12,000 BTUs to keep your room breezy and cool on even the steamy summer day , with an EER of 10.8 ( a oppose to the federal standard of 9.8 ) . The 24-hour timer and three-speed fan let you control when and how long the unit run for , and the lift-out filter be easy to access for maximum air quality . ( GE 115 Volt , $ 340 ) More About Energy Star Appliances Energy Star Releases New `` Most Efficient '' Label Gold Star for Energy Star Are You Using Energy Star to Its Full Potential ? Related on TreeHugger.com : The true impact of not recycle our old electronics Is Text Neck really a thing ? NuBryte Smart Home control system raise question about what a smart home be suppose to do Tags : Appliances | Electronics | Summer facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW National Bank of Abu Dhabi : Even at $ 10 per barrel , oil ca n't match solar on cost Emulsifiers in packaged food be wreak havoc with our digestive tract LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin Prefab Australian home produce more energy than it use 21 Natural Home Remedies for Pets The ELF could replace a car for a lot of people Tesla now have 2,000 Superchargers , which have power 86 million electric mile ! 11 easy way to reduce your plastic waste today The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 