Microwave or Toaster Oven , Which be the Greener Kitchen Gadget ? : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social Microwave or Toaster Oven , Which be the Greener Kitchen Gadget ? Jaymi Heimbuch ( @ JaymiHeimbuch ) Technology / Gadgets April 22 , 2009 Share on Facebook So you 've notice that you can save a lot of energy by switch from oven to small cooking device like a microwave or toaster oven when reheat food . But ... which be well , the microwave or the toaster oven ? We 're take a closer look to see which be the good of the two . Energy Use of Microwaves and Toaster Ovens When it come to energy consumption , the competition between a microwave and a toaster oven , well , really be n't much of a competition . A microwave use on average around 750-1100 watt . A toaster oven us around 1200-1700 ( EnergySavers ) . Essentially , when use a counter top device rather than an conventional oven , a toaster oven will use about half the energy , while a microwave use about one third of the energy . It 's easy to see that you 'll be use less energy over all if you go with a microwave . The real trick be in how you will use it , and how you want your food cook . Uses of Microwaves and Toaster Ovens Vary A microwave and a toaster oven be use for different purpose . If you want something hot now , and you do n't care much about how the food turn out other than be hot , then a microwave be the way to go . But if you want to imitate oven cook , then a toaster oven be the way to go , heating food more slowly but also more evenly . Either way , you 're save money and energy over a conventional oven if you 're use the device to reheat food or cook small , quick meal . However , there 's a difference not only in how the food turn out , but also in how much time be spend with the power on . A microwave be normally use for reheating food or cook freeze meal . Unless you do n't use an oven at all and be cook freeze lasagna , which take around 25 minute , you 're probably only use a microwave for a few minute at a time . An average daily use be about 15 minute total on high for reheating food . Assuming an average price of $ 0.10 per kilowatt hour , that add up to .36 kwh , or $ 0.04 . ( Consumer Energy Center ) For a toaster oven , it take more time to heat up food . Usually a toaster oven be preheat for a few minute , then the food be bake or broil . For instance , reheat a piece of pizza take about 2 minute in a microwave , but about 5 minute at 350 degree in a toaster oven . An average daily use for reheating food be about 50 minute at 425 degree , which add up to an average of .95 kwh , or $ 0.10 . ( Consumer Energy Center ) Decision Time : Microwave or Toaster Oven ? Is it worth the additional energy bill to have food that feel and taste like it just come out of the oven ? Ultimately it 's up to you . Both a microwave and toaster oven have a variety of setting allow you versitility in cooking . In a microwave , you can do everything from reheat pasta to boiling water to defrosting a chicken breast to popping pop corn . With a toaster oven , you can bake , toast , broil and so on . A rule of thumb be if you want your food heat fast and with the least energy use , go with a microwave . But if you want your food heat well while still use half the energy of the oven , go with a toaster oven . Of course it be also possible to have both device and use them accord to your need , maximize the energy saving of the microwave where appropriate , and the quality of the toaster oven where appropriate , and avoid a conventional oven altogether in many instance . Tips for Buying and Using a Microwave or Toaster Oven There be a few thing to keep in mind so that you can get the most energy efficient device . - When purchase , keep eye on the wattage when comparison shop . Go for a device that be on the low end of the power consumption range . Just because it 's a high watt device do n't automatically mean it will cook good . Also , if you 're go to be use the device on a daily basis , go with convection - the air circulation will cook food more evenly and at a more thorough temperature . - For microwave , use them for reheat food or for food that cook quickly , rather than large meal . Cooking up a freeze lasagna or a potato in a microwave be actually not more efficient than use the oven . - For toaster oven , treat it like an oven . For instance , preheat can be helpful but not always necessary . If you feel you have to preheat , minimize the amount of time spent warm up the toaster oven . Also , it 's good to use this for reheating and small meal . For large meal , go for a big one-potter in the conventional oven or crock pot so you have left-overs . It will ultimately be more energy efficient . More This versus That Comparisons Is it Greener to Use a Roomba or an Upright ? Biodegradable vs. Recyclable : Which be the Better Packaging Solution ? Online Shopping vs. Driving to the Mall : The Greener Way to Buy Think Bottled Water be Bad , Could Bottled Orange Juice Be Even Worse ? Built In Dishwashers vs. Hand Washing : Which be Greener ? Related on TreeHugger.com : Smart light bulb design by ex-Tesla engineer adjusts itself UK , Germany , Australia all see energy/emissions drop in 2014 Life with a Nest smart thermostat : The first month Tags : Appliances | Cooking | Energy Efficiency | Green Stats facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW Farm in a box produce an acre 's worth of crop in a shipping container Without Bound : Doc share fascinate story of mobile living nomad ( Video ) 24 profoundly beautiful word that describe nature and landscape DIY Beekeeping : Download and print a smart beehive kit A good shower : Save water , energy , and money with a thermostatic shut-off valve The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late Summer home build with salvaged material be a `` treehouse for adult '' So you use oil ? No , that do n't make you a hypocrite The Rise of Disc Golf : A Greener Alternative to 'Ball Golf' LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 