What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? | Home Guides | SF Gate SF Gate News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns More Less Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save Sections Skip to main content . Home Guides by Demand Media Home Guides Menu Buying Real Estate Construction & Remodeling Design Foreclosures Government Housing Assistance Home Decoration & Design Indoors Insurance & Inspections More Landlords & Tenants Mortgage & Loan Payments Mortgage & Loan Rates Mortgages Outdoors Real Estate Advice Real Estate Rentals & Leases Real Estate Terms & Definitions Real Estate Values & Taxes Refinancing Repair Selling Real Estate Storage Types of Mortgages & Loans Home Guides Outdoors Energy Efficient What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? by Chris Deziel Recycling your old , inefficient appliance save energy and money . The appliance that typically draw the most electric power be those that produce heat through electrical resistance , such a electric water heater and dryer , but they be n't necessarily the most expensive appliance to run . Appliances that you use often , such a washing machine , and those that run continuously , such a refrigerator , can cost more to use in the long run . The most expensive appliance be old one with inefficient motor , leak and poor insulation . HVAC Systems Although it be n't , strictly speak , an appliance , a residential heating , ventilation and air condition system be the king of power consumption . With a power draw that can be as high a 15 kilowatt , an HVAC system account for a whopping 44 percent of of the average energy bill . The efficiency of an HVAC system be measure by it Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio , which usually range from 13 to 23 , with high number denote great efficiency . Units that pre-date 1992 can have a SEER a low a 6 , and they use -- and waste -- considerably more electricity than contemporary system . 240-Volt Appliances The most energy-intensive appliance be the one serve by 240-volt electricity . These include water heater , which draw between 4.5 and 5.5 kilowatt , clothes dryer , which can draw up to 5 kilowatt , and electric range , which can draw 1 to 2 kilowatt . The rating for dishwasher with a dry feature can also be in the neighborhood of 2 kilowatt . Water heater typically consume the most energy -- up to 14 percent of total energy cost -- because they cycle on and off continuously . An appliance 's power draw be clearly indicate on a label affix near it power terminal . Refrigerators and Freezers When you consider annual power consumption , refrigerator and freezer rank high on the list of power consumer , not because they have an overbear power draw , but because they be in continuous use . Older refrigerator with poor insulation and inefficient compressor be high on the list than modern , energy-efficient one , and certain feature add to the power consumption . These feature include through-the-door ice maker , which increase energy consumption by up to 20 percent , and automatic defroster , which can consume up to 40 percent more . A refrigerator with a freezer on the bottom consume 16 percent less power than a side-by-side model . Insulate and Save More than half of a typical residential energy bill go to heating and refrigeration , which be why proper insulation be so important . If heat can pass through the wall or ceiling , the central heating and cool system work hard to maintain a comfortable climate , and the energy bill go up . Locate gaps and fill them with insulation or caulk . Similarly , an insulation blanket around your water heater reduces the power it use and lower your energy bill , while replacing your antique refrigerator with a properly seal , energy-efficient model add to your saving . Dig This Whats Your Garden Fancy ? Flowers Herbs Fruits Vegetables Nuts Grow On Got a Green Thumb ? Get help plant : Flowers Herbs Fruits Vegetables Nuts What be you interest in planting ? Flowers Herbs Fruits Vegetables Nuts Are you look to plant ? Annuals Perennials Back Which Herb do you want to grow ? Garlic Basil Chives Rosemary Parsley Thyme Oregano Sage Tarragon Marjoram Other Back What be your Climate Zone ? Zone A ; Rainy , wetlands , moisture summer ( San Carlos , Redwood City , Woodside , Menlo Park ) Zone B ; Maritime air , mild winter , coolness and fog ( Millbrae , San Mateo , Belmont ) Zone C ; Coolness and fog ( San Francisco , Brisbane , San Bruno ) Back Which Vegetables do you want grow ? Tomatoes Red or Green Bell Peppers Spinach Swiss Chard Root Vegetables Other Back What be your Climate Zone ? Zone A ; Rainy , wetlands , moisture summer ( San Carlos , Redwood City , Woodside , Menlo Park ) Zone B ; Maritime air , mild winter , coolness and fog ( Millbrae , San Mateo , Belmont ) Back These fruit be good for your climate . Which be you interest in planting ? Apples Apricots Blueberries Cane Berries Cherries Citrus Figs Grapes Kiwi Nectarine Peach Pear Persimmon Plum Strawberry Back These fruit be good for your climate . Which be you interest in planting ? Apples Apricots Blueberries Cane Berries Citrus Figs Grapes Kiwi Nectarine Peach Pear Persimmon Plum Strawberry Back These fruit be good for your climate . Which be you interest in planting ? Apples Cane Berries Citrus Figs Lemons and Limes Kiwi Pear Persimmon Plum Strawberry Back These nut be good for your climate . Which be you interest in planting ? Walnut Hazelnut Chestnut Almond Back These nut be good for your climate . Which be you interest in planting ? Walnut Chestnut Almond Back Your Planting Articles I want to plant something else References ( 4 ) Daily Finance : 10 Most Costly Appliances Energy.gov : Tips on Saving Money & Energy at Home Consumer Energy Center : Central HVAC Consumer Energy Center : Refrigerators and Freezers About the Author Chris Deziel specialize in writing about home improvement and the art and science . Deziel be a carpenter with more than 20 year of professional experience , a teacher , musician and online handyman expert . He have a Bachelor of Science in physic and earn a Master of Arts in humanity from California State University , Dominguez Hills while teaching in Japan . Photo Credits BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images Suggest a Correction Have Feedback ? Thank you for provide feedback to our Editorial staff on this article . Please fill in the following information so we can alert the Home Guides editorial team about a factual or typographical error in this story . All Fields be require . Name E-mail Feedback Type What kind of error ? Factual or Typographical Digital Rights and Permissions Other Comments or Corrections 2000 Character Limit Captcha Enter Code : Submit Related Articles Appliances That Cost the Most on the Electric Bill Energy-Saving Household Appliances What Household Appliances Will a 5,500-Watt Generator Run ? Do Small Appliances Pull Power When They Are Off ? Will My Freezer Work on Time-of-Use Electricity ? How to Protect Electrical Appliances From Lightning Strikes More Articles Energy-Saving Electrical Appliances Cost to Operate Propane Vs. Electric Appliances How to Go Green With Appliances in Your Home How Much Electricity Does a Bathroom Fan Use ? Does It Cost Electricity to Keep Items Plugged Into Your Outlets ? Can a Refrigerator That Is Going Bad Use More Electricity ? Trending in Your Area I 'm About to Go Into Foreclosure : What Can I ... If you 're about to go into foreclosure and want to stop it , ... I Ca n't Sell My House : Should I Let It Go ... Foreclosure do n't mean that the homeowner can move on ... How Much Wiggle Room Is There on a ... Foreclosure property can be sell in a number of different ... Quit Claim Deeds vs. Foreclosure Quick claim deed be also refer to as a deed in lieu of ... Initial Communication for Foreclosure ... Initial communication for foreclosure will likely happen so ... Reasons Why Homeowners Face Foreclosure Homeowners can face foreclosure for a wide variety of ... Is Buying a Foreclosure a Good Idea ? Buying a foreclosure be a process that require you to ... The Disadvantages of a Deed in Lieu of ... A deed in lieu of foreclosure will halt the foreclosure ... Powered by Demand Media News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save 