The Essentials of Photovoltaic Solar Power for Your Home - For Dummies Search See All Topics Small Business & Careers Computers & Software Consumer Electronics Crafts & Hobbies Education & Languages Food & Drink Health & Fitness Home & Garden Internet & Social Media Music & Creative Arts Personal Finance Pets Photography & Video Relationships & Family Religion & Spirituality Sports & Outdoors Games Home & Garden Auto Repair and Maintenance Building Holiday Decorating Home Improvement Home Organization How To Farm How To Garden How To Live Green Interior Decorating Lawn Care How To Live Green The Essentials of Photovoltaic Solar Power for Your Home Switching to solar energy let you power your home and cut your carbon emission . Most solar system use PV ( photovoltaic ) panel . Knowing how the component work together will help you create an efficient system that provide the power you need . The Benefits of Solar Powering Your Home Most photovoltaic ( PV ) customer be interested in solar powering their home because they realize that solar power be good for the environment , among other thing . Few other investment can positively [ more ] The Basic Components of a Home Solar Power System Solar intertie photovoltaic ( PV ) system be not particularly complex . First there be panel , which collect the sunlight and turn it into electricity . The DC signal be feed into an inverter , which convert [ more ] Types of Photovoltaic Solar Panels If you 're look into power your home with solar power , you need to know about photovoltaic ( PV ) panel . PV panel , which cost anywhere from $ 2.40 per watt to over [ more ] Mounting Equipment for Solar Panels When you switch to solar power for your home , mount your photovoltaic ( PV ) solar panel be of critical importance . First , you need to mount the panel where they 'll get maximum sunshine over the course [ more ] DC-to-AC Inverters for Your Solar Equipment In your solar power system , you need inverter to take the low-voltage , high-current signal from the PV panel and convert them into 120VAC or 240VAC , which be directly compatible with grid power . Inverters [ more ] Add a Comment Print Share Recommends Promoted Stories From Around The Web Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus More Series The Essentials of Living Green with Children The Essentials of Greening Your Lawn and Garden Wind Power For Dummies Cheat Sheet Solar Power Your Home For Dummies Cheat Sheet Green Careers For Dummies Cheat Sheet Featured Book Anatomy and Physiology Workbook For Dummies , 2nd Edition US $ 19.99 Add To Cart More For Dummies Online Test Banks Browse Online Courses Explore Mobile Apps Shop for Books and More Advertisement Newsletters Food , Home & Garden Maintain and beautify your home and garden , liven up meal with delicious recipe , and entertain family and friend with style . Privacy Policy More Newsletters Inside Dummies.com For Dummies Mobile Apps Make everything easy on the go ! Get helpful information with our best sell apps for iPhone and iPod touch . CAREER STRATEGIES Job searching ? Career change ? Get help from our reliable tip and sound advice . PERSONAL FINANCE Make manage your personal finance easy with help from Dummies.com The Facts on Gluten-Free Eat and live well on a gluten-free diet with the food for thought you 'll find here . About For Dummies Subscribe or Unsubscribe to E-Mail Newsletters My Account Store Shopping Cart Topics A-Z Help Dummies.biz Mobile Site Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Advertise with Us Contact Us Copyright 2015 & Trademark by John Wiley & Sons , Inc . All right reserve . 