Palmer 's populist carbon tax ploy wo n't cut power bill Skip to navigation Skip to content Help use this website - Accessibility statement JavaScript disable . Please enable JavaScript to use My News , My Clippings , My Comments and user setting . My News My Clippings My Comments Sign-up Log in Learn More Personalise your news , save article to read late and customise setting If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . 10:01AM Friday Mar 6 , 2015 3727 ( 0 ) online now Do you know more about a story ? contact u Close Provide detail information , include contact detail ( if relevant ) Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Newsletters Fairfax Media Network More Close News & Weather smh.com.au theage.com.au brisbanetimes.com.au canberratimes.com.au nationaltimes.com.au watoday.com.au weatherzone.com.au Business & Finance businessday.com.au brw.com.au afr.com afrmagazine.com.au smartinvestor.com.au investsmart.com.au Lifestyle life & style dailylife.com.au thevine.com.au essentialbaby.com.au essentialkids.com.au findababysitter.com.au goodfood.com.au Classifieds domain.com.au drive.com.au adzuna.com.au rsvp.com.au stayz.com.au Advertise with u Newsletters Full list of site About Fairfax Media Privacy Terms & Conditions Brisbane Times Queensland Queensland Brisbane Live Brisbane Traffic About Town You be here : Home Queensland News Search brisbanetimes : Search in : Queensland brisbanetimes.com.au Web Queensland Palmer 's populist carbon tax ploy wo n't cut power bill Date July 11 , 2014 ( 29 ) Comments 48 Read late Stephen King Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Palmer United Party leader Clive Palmer address the medium in the Senate courtyard . Photo : Alex Ellinghausen If you hear Clive Palmer and his Palmer United senator say that they will only scrap the carbon tax with strong rule to protect consumer , you might have think they sound quite fair and reasonable . Actually , it populist hokum . And if youre expect to see your power bill go down when the carbon tax be eventually repeal , rather than keep rise , get ready to be disappoint . Standing up for consumer ? Palmer United Party thwart the Abbott Government 's bid to repeal the carbon tax this week . Photo : Rocco Fazzari In a chaotic day in Parliament , the Senate have defeat the government carbon tax repeal . That come after Palmer surprise everyone at a medium conference early in the morning by claiming he and his senator have be double-crossed by the Coalition over amendment to ensure carbon tax saving be pass on in full to Australian family and business . Advertisement Palmer United Senator Glenn Lazarus declare this week that his party historic amendment would : deliver a toughened obligation for supplier of electricity , natural gas and synthetic greenhouse gas to pass on all cost saving result from the carbon tax repeal ; it also require supplier to clearly explain to the ACCC [ Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ] and customer the way in which cost saving have be calculate and pass on to consumer . But be the Palmer United amendment really necessary ? And will you save money on your power bill thanks to their propose change ? On both count , from what Ive see the answer be no . Instead , it look more like make sure that when the carbon tax be eventually repeal , the Palmer United Party can gain credit for what be already include in the legislation . First , the carbon tax repeal legislation already cover Australian Competition and Consumer Commission monitor on price after the carbon tax repeal . As the Explanatory Memorandum state : The ACCC will have new power to monitor price and take action against business that attempt to exploit other business and consumer by charge unreasonably high price or make false or mislead claim about the effect of the carbon tax repeal on price . So at best the PUPs historic amendment be add some detail to obligation that be already in the legislation . However , even these obligation be unnecessary . To see this , it be important to know how electricity price be set . Understanding your power bill Roughly speak , retail electricity price pay by household be either set by a regulator or be set by the market . As the Australian Energy Regulator note : In Queensland , New South Wales , the ACT and Tasmania , you can ask for a contract with a regulate electricity price . When the carbon tax be repeal , these regulate price will be adjust for the reduction in cost . However , this may not occur immediately . It will depend on the regulatory process . The price will be change at the next reset unless the regulator make provision for the potential removal of the carbon tax the last time it set the price . So there be little point in having either the ACCC monitor this process or electricity retailer explain it . Any delay depend on the regulator , not business exploitation . Alternatively , large business customer and household in Victoria and South Australia do not have regulate tariff but rely on retail competition . But even for these unregulated tariff , the ACCC monitoring be unlikely to make a real difference . Electricity retailer buy their power in two way . They can either buy on the spot market or through forward contract with generator . The spot price be arguably the most transparent price in Australia . But they be also some of the most volatile and can vary between a negative price and a price up to almost $ 13,000 per megawatt hour . The relatively small change due to the repeal of the carbon tax will be swamp by the normal volatility of power price in the short term . So even if the ACCC want to check the effect , it be not go to be able to do so . The contract between retailer and generator will have the carbon price build in . And , when they be renegotiate , the effect of the carbon price will be remove . But that will not be instantaneous . Once this occur , competition will pass the price fall onto customer . And if you think your electricity retailer be not act fast enough , then shop around . There be plenty of retailer out there . So the PUP amendment , and ACCC price monitor more generally , be an attempt by politician to claim credit for change that will happen anyway . However , these attempt be not without cost . Why your bill be really rise Electricity price be rise , but thats mainly due to change demand for network asset . Network price have rise rapidly over the past few year . For example , in New South Wales average annual power bill more than double between 2007-08 and 2013-14 , soar from A $ 1013 to A $ 2073 , with A $ 580 or more than half of that rise due to increase cost for the network of pole and wire . In comparison , the carbon tax add A $ 172 . And a the Australian Financial Review report today , the state-owned NSW network company be seek further price rise . In part these price increase reflect fall demand for network asset . The network have fix cost and a consumer buy less power through the network , the cost per unit of power go up . This feedback loop from fall demand to high price to even far reduction in demand have be call a death spiral . While the repeal of the carbon tax may be political theatre , it simply distract attention from the real problem face Australias electricity network . With electricity price set to keep rise after the carbon tax be repeal , due to factor that have nothing to do with the carbon tax , the ACCC will face a lot of pressure to find a culprit to blame . Hopefully , the regulator will stand it ground . But it may also be tempt to find a scapegoat . In that case , watch out if you be an electricity retailer . Unless every i be dot and every t ' be cross , you may be name and sham , destroying significant business value . But of course , this just create an implicit regulatory burden . And eventually that will also be reflect in the price household pay for their electricity . So if you be expect the repeal of the carbon tax to lead to low power price , dont hold your breath . Stephen King be a member of the Economic Regulation Authority of WA . He be also a former Member of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) . This article be originally publish on The Conversation . Read the original article . 48 comment so far Hook , line and sinker Australia . You give Clive Palmer the mandate , now he be use it . There be only room for one minor political party in Australia . Who will it be PUP or the Greens ? Commenter enough be enough Date and time Thu Jul 10 22:41:10 UTC 2014 The Greens be look like the shining light of policy credibility and common sense when compare to the rest of them at the moment . Australia . You get what you think you want from the last election and there be so many protest vote . Now you have to put up with it . This should be a lesson for all of u . Commenter Cynic Date and time Fri Jul 11 00:28:30 UTC 2014 When Abbott be leader in opposition he dish up that much crap and say no to everything . Now you say it not right to say no to Abbott . Is the present opposition leader still name Shorten or be he on holiday ? Go Clive bring them to account . Commenter Grey Nomad Date and time Fri Jul 11 06:42:10 UTC 2014 I'l simplify this whole thing about power , at the moment I 'm pay 28 cent per Kwh ( Kilo Watt Hour ) after the carbon tax be go if that rate do n't come down to 25.2 cent ( 10 % less ) per Kwh Tony Abbott have lie to me about the affect of the carbon tax and I will be vote him out at the next election , if you want to find out how much you pay per Kwh look on the back of your bill , save it and make sure yours come down by 10 % a well , this be the only true way to show that your power bill have come down by the promise 10 % , it 's a simple a that . Commenter Bushy Location Cressy Date and time Fri Jul 11 08:35:31 UTC 2014 Please give u King Clive far good than Aunt Milly 's Green's Commenter DALE Date and time Fri Jul 11 20:39:31 UTC 2014 @ Bushy ... I hope you 're well at kick out Abbott at the next election than you be at math . Add 10 % to your 25.2 cent and see what you come up with ; ) @ Grey Nomad ... You 're spot on . Abbott be the most disruptive opposition leader EVER in Australian politics and now demand peace . He be a hypocrite then and nothing have change . Wong or Plibersek should be take Abbott to charge . Both be powerful communicator and he would n't know how to handle them . Commenter Neal Location Cairns Date and time Fri Jul 11 23:29:21 UTC 2014 I 'd rather have PUP any day . The Greens have prove themselves when Labor be in power . They crawl up Gillard and Gillard would jump whenever they ask her to , just to get their vote . What be so different this time ? The only difference be the party . PUP put the people first while Greens put the environment first , with the people and their job last . You need to meet a happy medium . Commenter J.G . Date and time Sat Jul 12 22:00:36 UTC 2014 Let 's just work on the Libs be that minor party . Commenter A country gal Date and time Sun Jul 13 03:22:38 UTC 2014 @ Neal , 10 % of 28 cent be 2.8 cent , take 2.8 from 28 and that leaf you 25.2 , learn how to count before you open your big mouth because it can make a fool out of you ! ! ! ! You must have learnt arithmetic off Joe Hockey . Commenter Bushy Location Cressy Date and time Sun Jul 13 22:34:17 UTC 2014 Believing that the carbon tax be a wrecking ball/ python sqeeze to the economy be what catch ( some ) Australians hook line and sinker . Nobody notice it affect them much when it go on , and they will notice it 's pass even less . Commenter marktlog Date and time Mon Jul 14 03:53:08 UTC 2014 More comment Would you like to comment ? You will need Javascript enable to use our Commenting Feature . Login to Comment New user ? Sign up Make a comment You be log in a [ Logout ] All information enter below may be publish . Screen name ( require ) Error : Please enter your screen name . Error : Your Screen Name must be less than 255 character . Location ( optional ) Error : Your Location must be less than 255 character . ( require ) 300 word remain Error : Please enter your comment . Error : Your Message must be less than 300 word . Post to Facebook Twitter LinkedIn I understand that submission of this content be cover by the Conditions of Use by which I be bound and Commenting Guidelines be available for my reference . You need to have read and accept the Conditions of Use . Thank you Your comment have be submit for approval . Comments be moderate and be generally publish if they be on-topic and not abusive . Post another comment Tweet Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Reprints & permission Advertisement Most popular 1 Karmichael Hunt , Jamie Dowling and Beau Falloon ... Contains : 2 Queensland Labor Government to sell 'non ... Contains : total comment 116 3 Palaszczuk move to link MP pay rise to those of ... Contains : total comment 49 4 BaT tunnel scrap a government look for ... Contains : total comment 61 5 Queensland MP salary to increase 2.58 per cent : ... Contains : total comment 37 LATEST VIDEO Featured Videos More video Debating the next 40 year The government 's Intergenerational Report be release , but what do it all mean ? With Liberal Wyatt Roy , Labor 's Amanda Rishworth and Fairfax 's Chris Johnson . From 10.30am . PT0M0S 300 169 Thu Mar 05 23:29:13 UTC 2015 Click to play video Hunt 'relieved ' after cocaine fine '' Click to play video Brisbane stabbing : 'yelling and scream ' `` Click to play video Put your pollie on the spot '' Featured advertiser Special offer View these special deal by Mozo . Advertisement Compare and Save Skip to : Best Deals Mobile Broadband Home Loans Credit Cards Low Rate Cards Rewards Cards Savings Accts Money Deals Loans Check out today 's best deal 0 % p.a . for 14 Months Plus no annual fee for the life of the card Find Out More Low Variable Rates Discover low variable home loan rate from 4.25 % More Info 60,000 Bonus Points Plus 0 % on balance transfer for 6 month Find Out More iPhone 6 We compare all carrier and deal Compare Deals Deals for 2015 Switching network or stay , we compare it Compare Deals Readers ' most view Most view article on The Sydney Morning Herald Top 5 Queensland article LNP host International Women 's Day lunch at men-only club Karmichael Hunt , Jamie Dowling and Beau Falloon face court on drug charge Cat and five kitten find dump in a suitcase Car seek after drive-by shooting at Mooloolaba Toowoomba shooting : Boy 's post-mortem result could take six month Most view article on The Age Top 5 Queensland article LNP host International Women 's Day lunch at men-only club Toowoomba shooting : Boy 's post-mortem result could take six month Eastern Busway project back on the table Fines for drive on the phone may be dial up Cat and five kitten find dump in a suitcase Most view article on WA Today Top 5 Queensland article 'Boob cruise ' link to schoolgirl ' bikie party What kill notorious Queensland child killer ? Karmichael Hunt , Jamie Dowling and Beau Falloon face court on drug charge Second salmonella outbreak at Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre reveal Gold Coast murder victim not a 'nice person ' , but do not deserve death : Court Most view article on Canberra Times Top 5 Queensland article Jackie Trad take Brisbane 's billion-dollar riverfront plan back to the drawing board LNP Women at men-only club a 'Rosa Parks moment' Second salmonella outbreak at Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre reveal BaT tunnel scrap a government look for different cross river rail line Cat and five kitten find dump in a suitcase Most view article on Brisbane Times Top 5 Queensland article BaT tunnel scrap a government look for different cross river rail line Police investigating man 's death in Highgate Hill Second salmonella outbreak at Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre reveal Queensland Labor Government to sell 'non strategic ' asset Karmichael Hunt 's court fine less than money spend on cocaine Brisbane Times Home Queensland National Environment Opinion Business Technology Digital Life Entertainment Life & Style Travel Cars Sport Weather Brisbane Times Sitemap About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us AM Today Text Version Site Accessibility Guide Connect Mobile Site RSS Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Products & Services Good Food Guide Newsletters Cracka Wines Classifieds Classifieds & Notices Accommodation Cars Dating Jobs Property Price Data Real Estate Buy and Sell Fairfax Media Member Centre Conditions of Use Privacy Policy News Store Archive Photo Sales Purchase Front Pages Fairfax Syndication Fairfax Events Fairfax Careers Press Council Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Buy & Sell Cruises Lawyers Credit Cards Business Mechanics Electricians Fitness Hair Salons Weddings Home Builder Cracker Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media 