What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? | eHow mom style food tech home money craft More 3 Browse Articles & Videos By Category Arts & Entertainment Business Careers & Work Cars Computers Crafts Culture & Society Education Electronics Fashion , Style & Personal Care Food & Drink Health Hobbies , Games & Toys Holidays & Celebrations Home & Garden Internet Legal Parenting Parties & Entertaining Personal Finance Pets Relationships & Family Sports & Fitness Travel Weddings Experts Get Expert Answers Start a 1-on-1 chat now ! Doctors Lawyers Tech Support Mechanics More Veterinarians Personal Finance Professionals Handymen Appliance Repair Specialist Tax Advisors Get An Answer eHow Home & Garden Home Appliances Other Home Appliances What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? What Household Appliances Use the Most Electricity ? By Lee Morgan , eHow Contributor Pin Share Tweet Stumble Share Found This Helpful The next time you get your electric bill in the mail , take a good look at the dollar amount you owe and know that 20 percent of the cost be generate by your household appliance . While heating and air condition can be expensive , and television and computer can eat up their fair share of juice , a few common home appliance gobble up energy in big amount that cost you a considerable amount each month . Knowing which one use the most might help you scale back the use of these pricey device when possible . The refrigerator be the big electricity use appliance in the typical home . ( Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images ) Other People Are Reading Appliances That Waste Electricity What Appliances in the Home Use the Most Electricity ? Refrigerator Unfortunately you cant just turn off the refrigerator . or else all the food would spoil . Regardless , the refrigerator be the appliance that us the most energy in the typical home . While some appliance may use more energy in a shorter amount of time , the refrigerator be one of the few thing that must operate 24 hour a day to serve it purpose . With approximately a 750 watt requirement be common on a 16 cubic foot frost-free refrigerator , accord to the Energy Savers website , the constant use of this appliance make be an expensive thing to have . The average household will use more kilowatt-hours in a year than any other single electrical appliance , and an average household will spend nearly $ 100 just to have a refrigerator each year , accord to the Save on Utilities website . Refrigerator ( PhotoObjects.net/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images ) Washer and Dryer The laundry isnt done at home in every house , but many people have both a washer and a dryer at home . If you do , then you can guarantee they be among the appliance that use the most energy . If you combine the energy usage of the washer and dryer it would far surpass the usage of the refrigerator , but divide they be only a close second and third . The amount of energy need to run a washer and dryer be among the high of all the household appliance , but fortunately they only run on occasion . Still , the washer and dryer be likely to use nearly 2,000 kilowatt-hours per year and cost the average family more than $ 150 in electric bill , accord to the Save on Utilities website . Washer and Dryer ( Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images ) Range/Oven Depending on how much you cook at home , the range and oven may or may not be on the upper end of the list . However , someone who cook for a family regularly on an electric appliance can be certain the oven and range together be one of the big energy hog in the home . The average American household spends around $ 70 per year on electric cooking , not include the microwave , add around 700 kilowatt hour to the home energy consumption . Range/Oven ( Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images ) Related Searches References U.S. Department of Energy : Estimating Appliance and Home Electronic Energy Use Save on Utilities : Electric Use by Appliance More Like This Appliances That Waste Electricity What Appliances in the Home Use the Most Electricity ? List of Household Appliances and Energy Consumption Featured Read Article How to Make Potpourri Read Article How to Choose a Living Room Paint Color Read Article How to Make Fabric Wall Art Related Ads Related Searches Read Article Turn a China Hutch Into an Office Command Center You May Like List of Household Appliances and Energy Consumption What Appliances Use the Most Energy ? What Household Appliances Use the Most Kilowatts ? Do Plugged in Appliances Use Electricity ? What Appliances Use the Most Electricity When Turned Off ? Household Appliances That Use the Most Energy Electrical Consumption of Household Appliances The Wattage Usage of Common Appliances demandmedia.com 1999-2015 Demand Media , Inc . About eHow eHow UK eHow en Espaol eHow Brasil eHow Deutschland Contact Us eHow Blog How to by Topic How to Videos Terms of Use 