Top 300 Complaints and Reviews about Samsung Microwave Menu Consumer Affairs Consumer News Consumer Resources Write a review Search dive Log in Samsung Microwave Home > Homeowners > Microwaves Are you this business ? Learn about ConsumerAffairs for Brands ! Overall Satisfaction Rating 1.51 /5 Based on 297 rating out of 300 review 5 star 8 3 % 4 star 8 3 % 3 star 15 5 % 2 star 64 22 % 1 star 202 68 % show rating distribution Compare Microwaves Research top Microwaves recommendation on ConsumerAffairs Compare Companies Tell u about your experience with Samsung Microwave : write a review Record a review about your experience with Samsung Microwave : Login to record a Review Tell u about your experience with Samsung Microwave : write a review Share this page facebook twitter google+ email link Consumer Complaints & Reviews 300 Consumer Complaints and Reviews 300 Complaints Filter by : see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars Tami of Boones Mill , VA on Feb. 10 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Samsung OTR microwave Model SMH9207st - Wow , where to begin ! I believe I buy this microwave in August of 2013 . I will explain late why I do n't know the exact date . In December of last year I get the dread SE code . I call Samsung ( after reading all the horrible review about my microwave ) and tell them I be get the dreaded code . They say since my microwave be over a year old , the warranty have expire and there be nothing they could do . I ask to speak to superior and go through four of them and they all tell me there be nothing they could do . Sooo I throw away the receipt , the owner manual and the mounting screw . He take down the microwave and I tell him to take the stupid thing to the dump . Luckily he have n't do it yet because a couple day late I receive an email from Samsung say that they be go to pay for a one time part and labor fix . A company call me and set up date and time to come out . The tech come out and notice that my microwave have scratch in the bottom and say it be a fire hazard and he do n't know if they would fix or not . I have hear online about the glass plate wobble so maybe that be how it get scratch . They call back and say they order a new door and I would have to pay for the coat paint to cover the scratch and also the mounting screw . Tech come out and the door have the wrong connection and would n't work . Had to reorder . Came out today , replace the door in a couple minutes and tell me he be through ... everything be work ... clock , light , etc . As he walk out the door I open the door and close it and it DIED ! I call him back in and he make a phone call and say he would have to reorder another door ! Going on almost three month so far and still no work microwave . Luckily a friend have an OLD $ 50 microwave that she let me use and it have work wonderfully ! I need to know how to join class action lawsuit . I just want a different microwave ! FRUSTRATED ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Holly of Seven Fields , PA on Feb. 5 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating After have my above-the-oven microwave for two year , the plastic handle broke off the screw it be attach to . After pay $ 45.95 for a replacement that I be told would be metal , be the same cheap plastic . Then try to attach the new handle , you have to pry off the molding to get to the screw . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jackie of Wilmington , NC on Feb. 2 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I be very surprise that Samsung have not have to recall their microwave oven . All of a sudden the panel show a code SE or E5 error code . The micro do just not go dead . It start do strange thing ... .. constant beeping ... . come on by itself ... .. blink light . These be not old micros . Mine be not even three year old . I call Samsung . They be less than helpful and suggest we call a service center . They ignore the problem and will not even admit that there be a problem . I be done with Samsung Microwaves . Never have a problem with GE ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Lee of St Catharines , ON on Feb. 2 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Samsung SMH2117S microwave - Samsung refuse after various escalation to repair the `` SE- '' error code that make the OTR microwave go crazy . The fan initially keep turn itself on and off constantly , then would show the error code and die . Unplugging it and plug it back in would briefly fix the issue , but then it just croak for good . Just a few month out of warranty ( of course ) , and now , for purely the principle , would join a CA lawsuit against Samsung despite the unlikely odds of that happen . Like most others here , we be add Samsung ( and Sony ) to the list of god-awful business from which we will NEVER again purchase . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Derrell of North Augusta , SC on Jan. 28 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Our Samsung SMH9187ST start have the same error code a many others have experience . My wife discover that push up on the keyboard panel and press Clear allow her to clear the code and resume normal use , however , this be a very temporary fix . I remove the panel a someone recommend , and clean all of the connection ... same problem . Then I read the post about use electrical tape to cover the ribbon cable . That work for 2-3 day . On my last attempt , I add more tape around the silver section of the ribbon cable , and add some tape to the metal frame that the ribbon cable rest against . So far , it be work . I believe this should have be a recall . Now that I 'm in the market for a 78 '' 4k Curved TV , I 'm shop all of the brand except Samsung . Their product be nice when they work , but it sound like Samsung do n't stand behind them when they do n't work . I 'm think LG or Sony for my next purchase . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Diane of Chesterton , IN on Jan. 28 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Bought a whole appliance package for around $ 7000 . Our Microwave ( model MC17F808KDT-AA ) go on the blitz by the light going on and off , the fan go on and off without be able to turn off without unplug . Then after 8 visit from repair company under warranty repair , they be say they need to replace the panel again ! I have call Executive Customer Relations multiple time with my concern about how it be electrical and that it be unsafe and so they send to some review board and deem it still repairable . When be it enough and refund my money ? I will never and I mean never purchase a Samsung product again ! Phone , electronics , appliance - nothing ! ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Beverly of Grand Rapids , , MI on Jan. 19 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating My kitchen be in desperate need of a makeover so I decide to purchase all new product from Sears and select Samsung . I so wish that I would have check with Consumer Affairs first before purchase ( 3 ) Samsung product in 2013 - all of which have have issue . I purchase a double door black refrigerator , a black microwave a well a a black gas range . My refrigerator from day one have have issue with the ice maker not make ice and the refrigerator temperature not work properly . The bad product of all be the microwave oven that caught fire while I granddaughter be cook a hotdog on a paper plate . The plate caught on fire . There be spark and flame literally shoot from the microwave . I do n't purchase the extended warranty on the microwave because my experience with good microwave be that they simply stop work after about 6-7 year . They do n't catch on fire ! I pay $ 329 for the microwave and Samsung want to charge me $ 325 for the repair and continue to give me the run around . The matter be still not resolve . So if you be read this review ... save yourself the trouble . Please do not purchase any Samsung product ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Alec of Laurel , MD on Jan. 18 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I have the ME179KFETSR unit instal by the builder . About a year after I move in , it start do wacky thing . The light come on in the middle of the night . The time reset . And then it stop work . Now I can not do anything with it at all . This unit get minimal usage in a one-person household . It be outside the warranty . Most frustrate be that this happen about one month after the warranty expire . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Donna of New Port Richey , FL on Jan. 18 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating The dread 5E display ... . So I have a Samsung SMH 9187st microwave and have officially join the club . My OTR microwave be just shy of 4 year and I guess a little lucky than most that I just get the error message . Googled a YouTube video by Joe ** where he show step by step how to clean behind the panel . So far , so good . I just hope it hold . add your response Helpful ? Yes No patricia of Rotonda West , FL on Jan. 17 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating My Samsung microwave turn itself on . I could not turn it off - have to unplug it . When I open it my plastic plate cover be melt completely . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Georgia of Wildomar , CA on Jan. 16 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I purchase a 3 appliance package include a OTR ( over the range ) microwave from Paul 's TV with Samsung be the manufacturer . First the microwave have a `` wobbly '' glass tray , it wobble . That 's my problem because that 's the way they be make . Then the microwave would just `` shut off '' if it be use more than about 7 minute . Say , back to back , freeze dinner or heat up 25 minute casserole . Called Paul 's , have to talk to Samsung . Repairman come out , order a new circuit board . Comes back 2 week late and replaces board . In the middle of a big Christmas Party , microwave `` shuts off '' again . Then after 45 minute , it turn itself back on . When I say `` shut off '' , all electric , include clock be off . I call again . Was tell it have to be `` uninstalled '' to be look at . So I pay someone to take it out . Repairman say I do n't have to do that . Then he call after and say yes , he order another part , so it have to be out to be fix . That be Dec 29th . I have big New Year 's party , and have to heat food in cooking pan , but now I do n't have a VENT , since it be in the microwave . Today I call Samsung and be transfer to `` Customer Relations '' because it 's January 16th , and the repairman have not show up twice , yet Samsung keep call me to verify I 've call him ? I want my money back so I can get something else . Oh , that 's too bad . Ca n't do that . Samsung pay $ 85 per repair call , he 's be here 3 time , plus part , so far for a $ 230 microwave . Their policy be to continue to repair until the repairman say it ca n't be fix . SWEET job this repairman have . Lucrative contract . I NEVER want to buy another SAMSUNG product again , NEVER . I 've do FOUR kitchen remodels , with all new appliance and never have an issue like this , nor work with such a stupid company . GE replace my French Door the 2nd time out because of faulty production . No issue Kitchenaid . No issue Bosch . No issue Fisher & Paykel . No extra warranty . Now I have to wait 2 day so Samsung can reschedule with the repairman . add your response Helpful ? Yes No emilia of Deming , NM on Jan. 16 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Just move into my new house . Came equip with Samsung microwave she 15th make in 2009 . I should have know something be up a it be not plug in . When plug in , it spin and go bonkers . When you can get it to accept number , it stop spin . It melt bowl and never heat evenly . Having it replace next week but cost me an additional 300 dollar . Sad . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Vicki of Marco Island , FL on Jan. 14 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I purchase a Samsung model # SMH9207ST one year and three week ago . It stop work and I get the SE error code . I call for service , not once , not twice , but three time , and finally get an appointment . The service tech arrive an hour and a half late and have no idea what to do . Of course I be told it would be $ 99 for him just to walk in the door . I have a video from you tube that I have find about SE error and he watch that and then call someone . He leave , say he would have to give me an estimate , and that the entire door might have to be replace ! It be only a touch over a year old and there be two of u in the house . This be ridiculous . I think Samsung should pay for repair and part . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Ed of Indpls , LA on Jan. 12 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating On 1/5/15 230pm I call 800-726-7864 talk to Tesha who give track # ** and give Corbett 's Appl . Svc. , 40 Katharine St , Ft Walton Fl. , 850-862-3148 . Talked to John on 1/8 at Samsung because Corbett 's need a work # ** but he do not ask for an acct . for Corbett 's and find send it to A & E , even though I tell him I have take it to Corbett 's . Talked to Matt 1023am , when Corbett 's say they have not receive authorization and he find that John have send it to the wrong shop , but I give him Corbett 's acct . # ** and he say he change it while I be talk to him . In a 42 minute conversation with Steffeny start at 342pm . after Corbett 's contact say they have not receive authorization , she and her supervisor both advise me that Corbett 's be not authorize even though I be give their number by Tesha and Corbett 's have a acct . number . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Patty of Knoxville , TN on Jan. 5 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating When we be hit with the dread SE , Samsung finally agree to fix my microwave even though it be a couple week out of warranty . About 6 month late , the microwave completely shut down . After many call to Samsung , they say they would fix it if it be the SE problem again but we would need to pay the technician if it be anything else . I 've be without a microwave for over 3 month try to resolve this . Is there a class action suit file yet ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jamie of Disputanta , VA on Dec. 29 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I buy a Samsung oven range microwave from Lowes about 6 month ago . The price be about $ 350 . It almost burn my kitchen down last night . Started make a sparking sound and then smoke come out . Smelled terrible . Its dead now . Completely burnt up inside . Useless $ 350 appliance . Do n't buy one . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Chris of Whitehouse , TX on Dec. 24 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating We purchase this Samsung smh1816s microwave in the fall of 2013 . By December 2013 the microwave quit work and display the `` SE '' or `` 5E '' error code . Samsung repair the unit under warranty only after 2 week ( 1 of which be Christmas week ) with no microwave . Now ( December of 2014 ) we be have the exact same issue , show the exact same error code and Samsung customer service and `` executive customer service '' refuse to fix the microwave because it be out of warranty . I will NEVER recommend Samsung appliance to anyone else . I too would love to be part of a class action lawsuit file against this company for sell knowingly defective equipment . You pay $ 300 for a Microwave you do n't even get 18 month worth of use out of ... ..very poor way to conduct business Samsung ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Norm of Seattle , WA on Dec. 23 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating One of the bad appliance I ever buy . Samsung over the range w/ hood model SMH1816S . First microwave in 30 year I ever have to have repair . And customer support on an issue with it be horrendous , and then non-existent . I recommend anyone consider this unit to finish off their kitchen match set of other Samsung product forgo aesthetic and get something else . First , as others have state on other review site , the control panel be awful . It be hard to read and the button be set in such a way ( presumable to keep someone from push a button unintended with cleaning the panel ) that you have to press very hard in exactly the right spot . No feel and go with this unit . The food , in spite of the revolving turntable , do not heat evenly . The stainless steel , for some odd reason , be difficult to clean ( exterior ) . We have have other stainless steel appliance from other company that clean easily . Then , a short time after warranty expire , the unit fail to work . It turn out some of the factory work be not do well on the circuit board and a loose connection cause a short and burn out the primary `` microwave '' make unit . The dealer tell u it be out of warranty , ( barely ) so we have it repair , then one of their repair people say it be a defect , not a warranty issue and I should contact Samsung . Samsung use every excuse in the book , and finally say something along the line of `` policy do not allow u to ever pay out of pocket expense , regardless of the cause or situation '' . End of story , end of Samsung . Later , a salesperson tell me they have have numerous complaint about the unit . Samsung TVs be great . We think the refrig , range , dishwasher , microwave would be good , too . Not happy with the other unit , but at least they work . But I will never own another Samsung appliance ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Steve of Cary , NC on Dec. 18 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Samsung 2.0 cu ft Over-the-Range Microwave Model SMH9207ST - On August 21 , 2013 , we purchase this Microwave . On Sunday , December 14 , 2014 , it simply stop work . After checking to see that the outlet be `` hot , '' I attempt to `` reset '' the microwave by leaving it unplug . Plugged it back in with no result , unless you count nothing happen a a result . This microwave replace an early one from Samsung with the dread `` SE '' error code that we 'd have for about 2 year . We get another Samsung because our experience with 4 Samsung television , refrigerator and wash machine have all be good . Bad decision . I 'll be replace this one with a Whirlpool . I 'm fairly certain that quality have probably be compromise over the past 20+ year , but there be a 3 year old Whirlpool microwave in the house when we buy the house and it do n't get replace for another 18-19 year . I ca n't remember , but it may have be replace because of it outdated style , not because of any problem . We 'll see how a 2014 generation Whirlpool microwave hold up . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Linda of New Westminster , BC on Dec. 12 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating After almost 3 year I get the dread 5E error message and have not have a functioning microwave since . I hesitate to fix it myself . The Samsung fridge I buy at the same time be dysfunctional a well . What junk ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No David of Durham , NC on Dec. 9 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Last night my Samsung microwave ( SMH9207ST ) be hit with the dread `` SE error '' while I be cook dinner on the stovetop . My microwave be just over two year old . I call Samsung and they inform me that because I be outside of the warranty ( 1 year ) , the best they could do would be to cover the cost of the part while I would be expect to cover the labor . Of course this be where the bulk of the expense will be . The woman I speak with ( Michelle ) acknowledge issue with other model but say that they have no evidence of flaw with the SMH9207ST . This be n't a cheap microwave . Rather I spend the extra money hop that I be get a superior product . I guess I expect Samsung to also share my disappoint that their product be not meet expectation . They say they would forward my complaint to their internal department . I hope to hear something back . It would be a small gesture to keep such a loyal customer . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Janice of Lynn , MA on Dec. 5 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I buy this a week ago . The button be almost impossible to push in . I have to use a pencil eraser to use the machine . I call for service and they send a repairman out to humor me . I do not do my homework - I just go by the Samsung name . It use to be a good name . After I read the review on the thing I determine that most of the user have the same problem . I say to the repairman `` you know that this could n't be fix before you come out here . '' He just smile and say , `` If I replace the panel it will be the same problem - that 's how they 're make . I would have be well off with a $ 49 Walmart special . What a piece of garbage . Not to mention the time for my husband to install the thing . Now I read that it be a fire hazard . Something should be do about allow a company to sell such an item . We be suppose to have law against potential fire hazard and this one definitely qualify . add your response Helpful ? Yes No willa of Monroe , MI on Nov. 28 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I purchase an over the stove microwave Sept 17 , 2014 from Lowe 's Monroe , Michigan . Thanksgiving Day Nov 27 , 2014 ( yesterday ) while warming up cheese dip I be smell electrical burning . I look and my Microwave , it be blow black smoke out of the vent . I open it up and my house fill with BLACK smoke . I turn it off . Needless to say it 's only about 2 1/2 month old . I call Lowe 's and they say I be out of the store warranty BUT they would send out a service company . REALLY ? ? ? ! ! ! ? ? ? NEVER AGAIN SAMSUNG ! ! ! Model # SMH2115 . If I have n't be stand in my kitchen , my house would have catch fire WITH 30 people inside of it for the holiday . Extremely dangerous . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Patrick of Batavia , NY on Nov. 23 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Samsung smh9187st - Building a new house and have an old Emerson counter microwave , I put in the Samsung consumer report highly rat at the time in to find out the Samsung company do not even stand behind it product . For three year after instal it I do not use it since my Emerson work fine . After the birth of my twin I start use it ( 16 month ago ) . First the door latch broke , no problem . I just fix it . Next dread SE code put card board in between ribbon . Okay back in service . Yesterday while heating water for warming of twin milk , thing dy completely . Thank you Emerson at least your product be still work after more than ten year . After reading all I have on this issue Samsung product will not be buy by me ever again . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Heather of Seal Beach , CA on Nov. 16 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I should have do my homework before instal this almost 60 LB waste of space over our stove . Shortly a year after own it , it begin beep in the night . What we then find be the dread SE code have begin -- one only need to Google it to learn all they need . Thankfully , there be actually YouTube video show how other consumer have to save their microwave from this product failure ... so we do it a well , and it work ... for about two month . And then the microwave stop work entirely . What a waste of several hundred dollar ! Shameful they just do n't stand by their product and recall and correct the issue . DO NOT BUY THIS MICROWAVE ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Dianna of Huxley , IA on Nov. 14 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating We just buy new Samsung appliance from Nebraska Furniture Mart . We 've have them for 1 month . Last week , the fan on the microwave start come on by itself . After reading these review , I do n't even want these appliance . SMSGA-ME18H704SFS/AA-Otr Micro 1.8 Cu . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jan of Bernardsville , NJ on Nov. 9 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Samsung microwave SMH9187B - Microwave go on for maybe a second , then lose power for a couple of second , then get power again and clock have to be reset , etc . When it shut itself off , there be an audible `` click '' in the control pad , at which time it die ... much like a circuit breaker trip . The ribbon be stuck to itself and I separate it . Also I have try clean all contact , etc . and it do not help . Probably 2 year ago I have the control board replace . Samsung actually cover the cost . Not sure now though . What a piece of garbage ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No raul of Stanton , CA on Nov. 7 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I 'm very disappoint with this microwave , only work for 2 year till SE code show up . Kind of sad . I love Samsung product but this one kill . add your response Helpful ? Yes No David of Cypress , CA on Oct. 30 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Electric fire with Samsung range-top microwave , model SMH1713S - Purchased from Lowe 's Cerritos Town Center , Long Beach , CA , approximate price $ 300+/- . Normal use for less than one year , now produce smoke indicative of an electric short/fire in the mechanism . Also , failure of the main microwave generator a evidence by lack of heating of material place in the oven chamber . Major fire hazard , should be the subject of a recall from Samsung , but I do not see any indication that they have take this type of action . Do not purchase Samsung microwave ovens . They be dangerous . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Heather of Grantsville , MD on Oct. 30 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Samsung be a joke . Purchased a microwave that last only 3 year with minimal use . Got the SE error code . Called Samsung for help . They agree to send out a service tech , well lo and behold NO ONE in my area will even deal with them . So basically Samsung tell me it be my problem , but they be willing to repair it if a service technician be in my area . This process take me 3 week . They wo n't return call , then transfer from one dept to the next , it be a total joke . They finally agree to pro rate the cost of my microwave . This process take another 2 week . Needless to say I will NEVER again purchase from Samsung . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Next page Samsung Company Profile Basic Information Company Name : Samsung Website : www.samsung.com Home Brands Blog About Us FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your use of this site constitute acceptance of the Terms of Use . Advertisements on this site be place and controlled by outside advertising network . ConsumerAffairs.com do not evaluate or endorse the product and service advertise . See the FAQ for more information . Partner with ConsumerAffairs for Brands If your company have a page on our site , we invite you to sign up for a Starter Account today to respond to your customer directly . Alternatively , you may call u at 1-866-773-0221 . For more information , see about u , FAQ and privacy policy . The information on this Web site be general in nature and be not intend a a substitute for competent legal advice . ConsumerAffairs.com make no representation a to the accuracy of the information herein provide and assumes no liability for any damage or loss arise from the use thereof . Sentiment Analysis power by Netbase Copyright 2015 Consumers Unified LLC . All Rights Reserved . The content of this site may not be republish , reprint , rewritten or recirculated without write permission . Connect with u Contact u Sign up for our consumer newsletter Sign up Write a review Home Consumer News Consumer Resources Log in Connect with u Loading Had an experience with Samsung ? Tell Everyone ! Or record a review about your experience with Samsung Microwave : Login to record a Review Samsung I 'm with the company We do n't currently support customer response to review , but you be welcome to write a review and share your experience . 