Better Energy Homes Scheme A notice about cooky Citizensinformation.ie us cooky . Some cooky may have be set already . To find out more about our use of cooky you can visit our privacy and cooky statement . By browsing this website , you agree to our use of cooky . Hide this message Skip navigation and go to main content Mobile site | Corporate site Home Categories Find information about : Social Welfare Education and Training Housing Money and Tax Health Consumer Affairs Government in Ireland See subcategories ... . Employment Travel and Recreation Moving Country Family and Relationships Justice Death and Bereavement Environment My Situation I be ... A person with a disability Being make redundant Unemployed Starting a business A carer Looking for employment scheme Going to college See more ... .. I want to ... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP Visit Card Apply for a passport Apply for a drive licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more ... .. Find a Centre Citizens Information Centres provide a free , confidential service . Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area : Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Find an Address What 's New You be here : Home > Housing > Housing grant and scheme > Better Energy Homes Scheme Better Energy Homes Scheme Introduction Rules Rates How to apply Where to apply Introduction The Better Energy Homes Scheme provide grant to homeowner to improve energy efficiency in their home . Landlords and owner of more than one property can also apply for a grant under the scheme . It be administer by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland ( SEAI ) . Types of work cover Grants be available for the follow energy-saving work : Roof insulation Wall insulation - for example , cavity wall , internal dry lining or external insulation Heating control upgrade* Installation of a high-efficiency boiler ( more than 90 % efficiency ) include a heating control upgrade A Building Energy Rating ( BER ) after the energy-saving work be carry out ( you must get this BER to qualify for the grant ) Solar heating *SEAI will only fund certain heating control upgrade with certain function . Also , while grant be available to upgrade heating control for heat pump or biomass system , you will not get a grant for this if you previously get a grant under the old Greener Homes Scheme ( now discontinue ) to install the system . How to find out if your home would benefit from energy-saving work You can use the Home Energy Self Survey to identify area in your home which could be improve to increase it energy efficiency . You can also get a Building Energy Rating ( BER ) done in advance of any work . A BER assessor will energy rate your home and provide you with an advisory report , which will help identify area that could be improve to increase the energy efficiency of your home . Rules You must have grant approval before you buy material or start any grant-funded energy-saving work . If you have already start work , you will not be eligible for a grant . However , a before BER can be do ahead of grant approval and could prove useful if you be uncertain about your energy-saving option or what to get do first . To qualify for a grant you must : Be the owner of a dwelling build before 2006 Use a contractor from SEAIs register list Have a BER carry out after the work be do Use a BER assessor from SEAIs National Register Apply for a minimum amount of 400 with your first application . You can apply for a number of grant under the scheme to reach the 400 minimum application amount but a BER grant can not form part of this amount . You may not get a grant if : Your first grant application be for less than 400 You be replace your exist boiler with a typical efficiency boiler of less than 90 % efficiency You replace your boiler but do not replace the heating control The work be part of any payment you receive under the pilot for the old Home Energy Saving Scheme SEAI publish detail FAQs about the Better Energy Homes Scheme . Planning permission In general , you will not need plan permission for the measure that be grant-aided under this scheme , though you may require it for external wall insulation . This will depend on matter such a whether the insulation will affect the external appearance of the building or whether the building be a protect structure . Contact your local authority to check if you need plan permission . Getting the work done safely Under the Regulations govern safety , health and welfare at work , homeowner be oblige to ensure that construction work on their home be carry out by competent people . Read more , include a guide for homeowner ( pdf ) and some Frequently Asked Questions , on the website of the Health and Safety Authority . Home Renovation Incentive As well a get a grant under the Better Energy Homes Scheme , you may be able to claim a tax credit on part of the cost of the work . Read more in our document on the Home Renovation Incentive and in these FAQs publish by Revenue . Rates Grants be pay after the work be complete and you have pay your contractor . Applications receive from specific offshore island be eligible for 50 % additional grant support . If the cost of the work ( include VAT ) be less than the maximum grant amount , you will get a grant for the actual cost of the work . If you be claim a tax credit under the Home Renovation Incentive , the amount of expenditure that qualifies for the credit will be reduce , a outline in this FAQ . Measure Better Energy Homes Scheme grant Attic insulation 200 Cavity wall insulation 250 Wall insulation - internal dry lining - Apartment ( any ) or mid-terrace house - Semi-detached or end of terrace house - Detached house 900 1,350 1,800 Wall insulation - external - Apartment ( any ) or mid-terrace house - Semi-detached or end of terrace house - Detached house 1,800 2,700 3,600 High efficiency ( more than 90 % efficiency ) gas or oil fire boiler with heating control upgrade 560 Heating control upgrade 400 Solar heating 800 A BER assessment after work be do 50 How to apply You can apply online or else download an application form ( pdf ) . Online application will get a response within 3 work day . Postal application will get a response within 20 work day . SEAI have produce a guide to help with your application ( pdf ) . Where to apply Better Energy Homes Scheme Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland P.O . Box 119 Caherciveen Kerry Ireland Locall : 1850 927 000 Homepage : http : //www.seai.ie/ Email : he @ seai.ie Page update : 2 December 2014 Back to top Language Gaeilge Related Documents Better Energy Warmer Homes Scheme This scheme aim to increase the energy efficiency and warmth of home where people on low income be live . Housing for old people Schemes and grant for house and home improvement for old people and people with disability . Contact Us If you have a question relate to this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0761 07 4000 ( Monday to Friday , 9am to 8pm ) or you can visit your local Citizens Information Centre . Social Welfare | Employment | Education and Training | Travel and Recreation | Housing | Moving Country | Money and Tax | Family and Relationships | Health | Justice | Consumer Affairs | Death and Bereavement | Government in Ireland | Environment About u | Contact u | Accessibilit 