How Does An Air Conditioner Work ? How Does an Air Conditioner Work ? Air conditioner and refrigerator work the same way . Instead of cool just the small , insulate space inside of a refrigerator , an air conditioner cool a room , a whole house , or an entire business . Air conditioner use chemical that easily convert from a gas to a liquid and back again . This chemical be use to transfer heat from the air inside of a home to the outside air . The machine have three main part . They be a compressor , a condenser and an evaporator . The compressor and condenser be usually locate on the outside air portion of the air conditioner . The evaporator be locate on the inside the house , sometimes a part of a furnace . That 's the part that heat your house . The work fluid arrives at the compressor a a cool , low-pressure gas . The compressor squeeze the fluid . This pack the molecule of the fluid closer together . The closer the molecule be together , the high it energy and it temperature . The work fluid leaf the compressor a a hot , high pressure gas and flow into the condenser . If you look at the air conditioner part outside a house , look for the part that have metal fin all around . The fin act just like a radiator in a car and help the heat go away , or dissipate , more quickly . When the work fluid leaf the condenser , it temperature be much cooler and it have change from a gas to a liquid under high pressure . The liquid go into the evaporator through a very tiny , narrow hole . On the other side , the liquid 's pressure drop . When it do it begin to evaporate into a gas . As the liquid change to gas and evaporate , it extract heat from the air around it . The heat in the air be need to separate the molecule of the fluid from a liquid to a gas . The evaporator also have metal fin to help in exchange the thermal energy with the surround air . By the time the work fluid leaf the evaporator , it be a cool , low pressure gas . It then return to the compressor to begin it trip all over again . Connected to the evaporator be a fan that circulate the air inside the house to blow across the evaporator fin . Hot air be light than cold air , so the hot air in the room rise to the top of a room . There be a vent there where air be suck into the air conditioner and go down duct . The hot air be use to cool the gas in the evaporator . As the heat be remove from the air , the air be cool . It be then blow into the house through other duct usually at the floor level . This continue over and over and over until the room reach the temperature you want the room cool to . The thermostat sense that the temperature have reach the right set and turn off the air conditioner . As the room warms up , the thermostat turn the air conditioner back on until the room reach the temperature . Heat Pump Imagine that you take an air conditioner and flip it around so that the hot coil be on the inside and the cold coil be on the outside . Then you would have a heater . It turn out that this heater work extremely well . Rather than burn a fuel , what it be do be `` move heat . '' A heat pump be an air conditioner that contains a valve that let it switch between `` air conditioner '' and `` heater . '' When the valve be switch one way , the heat pump act like an air conditioner , and when it be switch the other way it reverse the flow of the liquid inside the heat pump and act like a heater . Heat pump can be extremely efficient in their use of energy . But one problem with most heat pump be that the coil in the outside air collect ice . The heat pump have to melt this ice periodically , so it switch itself back to air conditioner mode to heat up the coil . To avoid pump cold air into the house in air conditioner mode , the heat pump also light up burner or electric strip heater to heat the cold air that the air conditioner be pump out . Once the ice be melt , the heat pump switch back to heating mode and turn off the burner . Other Places to Visit : AHRI - Air Conditioning , Heating & Refrigeration Institute - Air Conditioning System How Stuff Works - Heating and Cooling System Basics Trivia Planet page on AC Back to How Things Work Main Page | EQ Homepage | Energy Story | Science Projects | Library | Games | | News | Find It | how do an air conditioner work ? how do an air conditioner work ? air conditioner and refrigerator work the same way . instead of cool just the small , insulate space inside of a refrigerator , an air conditioner cool a room , a whole house , or an entire business . air conditioner use chemical that easily convert from a gas to a liquid and back again . this chemical be use to transfer heat from the air inside of a home to the outside air . the machine have three main part . they be a compressor , a condenser and an evaporator . the compressor and condenser be usually locate on the outside air portion of the air conditioner . the evaporator be locate on the inside the house , sometimes a part of a furnace . that 's the part that heat your house . the work fluid arrives at the compressor a a cool , low-pressure gas . the compressor squeeze the fluid . this pack the molecule of the fluid closer together . the closer the molecule be together , the high it energy and it temperature . the work fluid leaf the compressor a a hot , high pressure gas and flow into the condenser . if you look at the air conditioner part outside a house , look for the part that have metal fin all around . the fin act just like a radiator in a car and help the heat go away , or dissipate , more quickly . when the work fluid leaf the condenser , it temperature be much cooler and it have change from a gas to a liquid under high pressure . the liquid go into the evaporator through a very tiny , narrow hole . on the other side , the liquid 's pressure drop . when it do it begin to evaporate into a gas . a the liquid change to gas and evaporate , it extract heat from the air around it . the heat in the air be need to separate the molecule of the fluid from a liquid to a gas . the evaporator also have metal fin to help in exchange the thermal energy with the surround air . by the time the work fluid leaf the evaporator , it be a cool , low pressure gas . it then return to the compressor to begin it trip all over again . connected to the evaporator be a fan that circulate the air inside the house to blow across the evaporator fin . hot air be light than cold air , so the hot air in the room rise to the top of a room . there be a vent there where air be suck into the air conditioner and go down duct . the hot air be use to cool the gas in the evaporator . a the heat be remove from the air , the air be cool . it be then blow into the house through other duct usually at the floor level . this continue over and over and over until the room reach the temperature you want the room cool to . the thermostat sense that the temperature have reach the right set and turn off the air conditioner . a the room warms up , the thermostat turn the air conditioner back on until the room reach the temperature . heat pump imagine that you take an air conditioner and flip it around so that the hot coil be on the inside and the cold coil be on the outside . then you would have a heater . it turn out that this heater work extremely well . rather than burn a fuel , what it be do be `` move heat . '' a heat pump be an air conditioner that contains a valve that let it switch between `` air conditioner '' and `` heater . '' when the valve be switch one way , the heat pump act like an air conditioner , and when it be switch the other way it reverse the flow of the liquid inside the heat pump and act like a heater . heat pump can be extremely efficient in their use of energy . but one problem with most heat pump be that the coil in the outside air collect ice . the heat pump have to melt this ice periodically , so it switch itself back to air conditioner mode to heat up the coil . to avoid pump cold air into the house in air conditioner mode , the heat pump also light up burner or electric strip heater to heat the cold air that the air conditioner be pump out . once the ice be melt , the heat pump switch back to heating mode and turn off the burner . other place to visit : ahri - air conditioning , heating & refrigeration institute - air conditioning system how stuff work - heating and cooling system basic trivia planet page on ac back to how thing work main page | eq homepage | energy story | science project | library | game | | news | find it | 