Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You - Yahoo News Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Homes Install the new Firefox Skip to Navigation Skip to Main content Skip to Right rail Sign In Mail Help Account Info Help Suggestions Follow Yahoo News on Facebook on Twitter on Tumblr on Google+ on Flickr News Home U.S . World Politics Tech Science Health Odd News Local Dear Abby Comics ABC News Yahoo Originals Photos Recommended Games More game Watch live : Actor Harrison Ford injure in single-pilot plane crash in California Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You By Elizabeth Palermo , TechNewsDaily Contributor June 13 , 2013 1:01 PM Content preference Done . View photo Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You Recent headline about PRISM the U.S. government program that allow security official to spy on people Internet activity confirm what conspiracy theorists have long be foretell : Big Brother be watch . But be the government the only one keep tab on what you search for , watch and discus with friend ? The truth be , there be others out there businesses , advertiser , scammer hop to line their pocket by collecting your personal data . And they have a variety of tool at their disposal to gather the information they need tool you might even have with you right now . That 's right everything from the smartphone in your pocket to the television in your bedroom can potentially be use to spy on you . Here be some ordinary gadget with serious spy potential . Smartphones You know your phone be smart , but just how smart be it ? Smart enough to sense your every movement . Smart enough to capture your every word . Smartphones possess an arsenal of powerful feature include microphone , GPS receiver , accelerometer and Wi-Fi antennas that be mean to help user communicate and access information , but those very same tool can also be use for spying . John Harrison , a representative with security software company Symantec , say mobile device be increasingly play host to the kind of malware once find only on PCs , such a remote-access Trojans ( RATs ) . RATs turn device into Bond-esque spy tool , steal password , record video and audio , and launch attack on other system . And smartphones be also vulnerable to other kind of hack . In 2010 , researcher at Rutgers University in New Jersey perform a series of rootkit attack on smartphones , demonstrate how to remotely activate a device 's microphone to secretly record conversation . The researcher be also able to install malware that allow them to track a user 's movement use the phone 's GPS receiver . According to the researcher , smartphone malware be even more dangerous than malware design for nonmobile operating system because user take their phone everywhere they go . An infect desktop computer might record all the conversation you have in your home office , but a smartphone can record all those top-secret meeting you attend at headquarters or next week 's clandestine rendezvous . But even if you do n't have secret to keep , your sneaky smartphone can still cause trouble . Last October , researcher with the U.S. military develop an Android app that create a 3D map of a phone 's surroundings by take candid photo and collect orientation data with the phone 's accelerometer . The app , dub `` PlaceRaider , '' pose as an innocuous camera app and sends sensitive smartphone data to an external server . Thanks to this app , burglar , identity thief and other criminal could have a real-time blueprint of your home or business . They could even zoom in on noteworthy section of the map , like that pile of financial statement on the desk or your open underwear drawer . And most recently , researcher at the University of Alabama find that smartphones be susceptible to an entirely new kind of threat know a a `` context-aware '' attack . Such attack activate malware via sound-based , magnetic or visual stimulus . This type of malware could turn your phone into a sleeper agent , allow your trusted device to silently bide it time before spilling all your secret to some cybercriminal at the drop of a heavy bass line . Tablets If your smartphone turn against you , at least you still have your trusty tablet , right ? Wrong . Most tablet have the same operating system a well a the same built-in spy tool a smartphones do . Take the accelerometer , for example . Much like a smartphone , your tablet come equip with a little device that sens the orientation of your tablet . Hence , when you flip the tablet sideways , the screen flip with it . But the accelerometer also have the potential to flip your whole world upside down . A 2011 study by researcher at the University of California , Davis demonstrate how to use an accelerometer to steal usernames and password . The researcher keylogger app measure the physical motion make when touch onscreen key and can detect which key be touch with 70 percent accuracy . If instal on your tablet , the `` TouchLogger `` app could provide scammer with all the information they need to wreak havoc on your digital world . Smart TVs So your mobile device be all sneaky robot , but what about the stationary gadget you keep at home ? Surely , those be trustworthy . Actually , they 're not . In December 2012 , cybersecurity firm ReVuln discover a flaw in Samsung 's then-newest-generation of smart TVs . The flaw grant hacker access to viewer ' sensitive data , such a view history and remote file . It also let hacker spread malware to USB device attach to TVs . Luigi Auriemma and Donato Ferrante , co-CEOs of ReVuln , say any device that take an input from the environment , whether it 's use Wi-Fi or some other mean , be vulnerable . `` It 's also interesting to consider that even a device not accessible from the Internet be at risk because it can be attack from LAN [ a local area network ] through a compromise PC , or via other attack vector like USB or Bluetooth , '' Auriemma and Ferrante write in an email interview with TechNewsDaily . As more home device , like TVs and game console , come equip with these `` attack vector , '' they say , the chance of spyware spread to every device you own increase exponentially . Take , for example , the Flame ( aka Flamer , aka Skywiper ) malware toolkit of 2012 . That piece of mega-malware be spread from USB to USB , infect hundred of machine run Windows XP , Vista and 7 operate system . Once infect , hacker use compromise computer to perform some of the most advanced spy maneuver the world have ever see . Flame which be believe to have be develop by an unknown national government could detect keystroke , take screenshots , monitor user activity both on and offline , record conversation and even spy on other device connect to the same Wi-Fi network . It then send this data to a dozen different server around the world . Imagine the espionage that could occur if such spyware be compatible with mobile operating system , like Android , or if it could be spread over the Internet a well a through USB device . Cable box You 're probably think that because your TV be n't connect to the Internet , your television habit be safe from the prying eye of hacker and other unsavory character , and you might be right . But then again , you might be wrong . Although idea about how to hack this type of device be still in their infancy , the mere possibility that it could happen could introduce privacy concern . In 2011 , Verizon submit a patent application for a TV set-top cable box equip with motion and audio sensor that track viewer ' every movement and utterance , all for the sake of bombard them with targeted advertisement . If the patent be ever approve , Verizon 's voyeuristic device will be sure to wipe away any illusion you have about your privacy in the presence of consumer electronics . Gaming console While spy cable box be not yet a reality , spy Xboxes be . Ever since Microsoft debut it first Kinect-compatible Xbox console in 2010 , gamers have be speculate about whether theyre be spy on in their bedroom . This year , Microsoft be set to roll out a new console , the Xbox One and rumor about it cyborglike capability , couple with Microsoft's ambiguous language surround user privacy , be n't do much to calm those fear . Like it predecessor , the One connect to the Internet through the Xbox Live service , which must be manually shut off when not in use . That 's right , unless you remember to shut it off , the One will be watch . But what do the One do with the data it collect from gamers ? Is this information sent directly to Mordor ? To Microsoft ? Unfortunately , that much be n't completely clear . However , it 's worth mentioning that much like Verizon , Microsoft also submit a patent application in 2011 for an app most likely for the Xbox One that would track Xbox user TV watch and then reward them with advertiser coupon and other promotion . According to The Verge , these reward would be grant to user who watch an entire television series from start to finish , or to those who do n't leave the room during commercial . Smart meter Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You - Yahoo News Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Homes Install the new Firefox Skip to Navigation Skip to Main content Skip to Right rail Sign In Mail Help Account Info Help Suggestions Follow Yahoo News on Facebook on Twitter on Tumblr on Google+ on Flickr News Home U.S . World Politics Tech Science Health Odd News Local Dear Abby Comics ABC News Yahoo Originals Photos Recommended Games More game Watch live : Actor Harrison Ford injure in single-pilot plane crash in California Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You By Elizabeth Palermo , TechNewsDaily Contributor June 13 , 2013 1:01 PM Content preference Done . View photo Forget the NSA : Your Tech Gadgets Are Spying on You Recent headline about PRISM the U.S. government program that allow security official to spy on people Internet activity confirm what conspiracy theorists have long be foretell : Big Brother be watch . But be the government the only one keep tab on what you search for , watch and discus with friend ? The truth be , there be others out there businesses , advertiser , scammer hop to line their pocket by collecting your personal data . And they have a variety of tool at their disposal to gather the information they need tool you might even have with you right now . That 's right everything from the smartphone in your pocket to the television in your bedroom can potentially be use to spy on you . Here be some ordinary gadget with serious spy potential . Smartphones You know your phone be smart , but just how smart be it ? Smart enough to sense your every movement . Smart enough to capture your every word . Smartphones possess an arsenal of powerful feature include microphone , GPS receiver , accelerometer and Wi-Fi antennas that be mean to help user communicate and access information , but those very same tool can also be use for spying . John Harrison , a representative with security software company Symantec , say mobile device be increasingly play host to the kind of malware once find only on PCs , such a remote-access Trojans ( RATs ) . RATs turn device into Bond-esque spy tool , steal password , record video and audio , and launch attack on other system . And smartphones be also vulnerable to other kind of hack . In 2010 , researcher at Rutgers University in New Jersey perform a series of rootkit attack on smartphones , demonstrate how to remotely activate a device 's microphone to secretly record conversation . The researcher be also able to install malware that allow them to track a user 's movement use the phone 's GPS receiver . According to the researcher , smartphone malware be even more dangerous than malware design for nonmobile operating system because user take their phone everywhere they go . An infect desktop computer might record all the conversation you have in your home office , but a smartphone can record all those top-secret meeting you attend at headquarters or next week 's clandestine rendezvous . But even if you do n't have secret to keep , your sneaky smartphone can still cause trouble . Last October , researcher with the U.S. military develop an Android app that create a 3D map of a phone 's surroundings by take candid photo and collect orientation data with the phone 's accelerometer . The app , dub `` PlaceRaider , '' pose as an innocuous camera app and sends sensitive smartphone data to an external server . Thanks to this app , burglar , identity thief and other criminal could have a real-time blueprint of your home or business . They could even zoom in on noteworthy section of the map , like that pile of financial statement on the desk or your open underwear drawer . And most recently , researcher at the University of Alabama find that smartphones be susceptible to an entirely new kind of threat know a a `` context-aware '' attack . Such attack activate malware via sound-based , magnetic or visual stimulus . This type of malware could turn your phone into a sleeper agent , allow your trusted device to silently bide it time before spilling all your secret to some cybercriminal at the drop of a heavy bass line . Tablets If your smartphone turn against you , at least you still have your trusty tablet , right ? Wrong . Most tablet have the same operating system a well a the same built-in spy tool a smartphones do . Take the accelerometer , for example . Much like a smartphone , your tablet come equip with a little device that sens the orientation of your tablet . Hence , when you flip the tablet sideways , the screen flip with it . But the accelerometer also have the potential to flip your whole world upside down . A 2011 study by researcher at the University of California , Davis demonstrate how to use an accelerometer to steal usernames and password . The researcher keylogger app measure the physical motion make when touch onscreen key and can detect which key be touch with 70 percent accuracy . If instal on your tablet , the `` TouchLogger `` app could provide scammer with all the information they need to wreak havoc on your digital world . Smart TVs So your mobile device be all sneaky robot , but what about the stationary gadget you keep at home ? Surely , those be trustworthy . Actually , they 're not . In December 2012 , cybersecurity firm ReVuln discover a flaw in Samsung 's then-newest-generation of smart TVs . The flaw grant hacker access to viewer ' sensitive data , such a view history and remote file . It also let hacker spread malware to USB device attach to TVs . Luigi Auriemma and Donato Ferrante , co-CEOs of ReVuln , say any device that take an input from the environment , whether it 's use Wi-Fi or some other mean , be vulnerable . `` It 's also interesting to consider that even a device not accessible from the Internet be at risk because it can be attack from LAN [ a local area network ] through a compromise PC , or via other attack vector like USB or Bluetooth , '' Auriemma and Ferrante write in an email interview with TechNewsDaily . As more home device , like TVs and game console , come equip with these `` attack vector , '' they say , the chance of spyware spread to every device you own increase exponentially . Take , for example , the Flame ( aka Flamer , aka Skywiper ) malware toolkit of 2012 . That piece of mega-malware be spread from USB to USB , infect hundred of machine run Windows XP , Vista and 7 operate system . Once infect , hacker use compromise computer to perform some of the most advanced spy maneuver the world have ever see . Flame which be believe to have be develop by an unknown national government could detect keystroke , take screenshots , monitor user activity both on and offline , record conversation and even spy on other device connect to the same Wi-Fi network . It then send this data to a dozen different server around the world . Imagine the espionage that could occur if such spyware be compatible with mobile operating system , like Android , or if it could be spread over the Internet a well a through USB device . Cable box You 're probably think that because your TV be n't connect to the Internet , your television habit be safe from the prying eye of hacker and other unsavory character , and you might be right . But then again , you might be wrong . Although idea about how to hack this type of device be still in their infancy , the mere possibility that it could happen could introduce privacy concern . In 2011 , Verizon submit a patent application for a TV set-top cable box equip with motion and audio sensor that track viewer ' every movement and utterance , all for the sake of bombard them with targeted advertisement . If the patent be ever approve , Verizon 's voyeuristic device will be sure to wipe away any illusion you have about your privacy in the presence of consumer electronics . Gaming console While spy cable box be not yet a reality , spy Xboxes be . Ever since Microsoft debut it first Kinect-compatible Xbox console in 2010 , gamers have be speculate about whether theyre be spy on in their bedroom . This year , Microsoft be set to roll out a new console , the Xbox One and rumor about it cyborglike capability , couple with Microsoft's ambiguous language surround user privacy , be n't do much to calm those fear . Like it predecessor , the One connect to the Internet through the Xbox Live service , which must be manually shut off when not in use . That 's right , unless you remember to shut it off , the One will be watch . But what do the One do with the data it collect from gamers ? Is this information sent directly to Mordor ? To Microsoft ? Unfortunately , that much be n't completely clear . However , it 's worth mentioning that much like Verizon , Microsoft also submit a patent application in 2011 for an app most likely for the Xbox One that would track Xbox user TV watch and then reward them with advertiser coupon and other promotion . According to The Verge , these reward would be grant to user who watch an entire television series from start to finish , or to those who do n't leave the room during commercial . Smart meter Right now , you 're probably think , `` I 'll just give up play video game , stop watch TV and flush my cellphone down the toilet . '' But before you do anything drastic , you should know this : They 'll still be watch you . `` Smart '' technology such a refrigerator with touch screen , and wireless electric meter might help you save money on your utility bill , but these connect device also help hacker peer into your home . Last year , a group of German researcher demonstrate the inherent vulnerability in smart-meter system by hack into an electric company 's wireless network and intercept the supposedly private information of it user . Equipped with a digital fingerprint of a home 's power usage , the researcher could tell when resident be at home , away or asleep . They could even tell what movie people be watch in their living room . Although cybercriminals be likely not interested in your preference for the original Toy Story movie , they might like to know when you 're spend the week in Disneyland . But keep in mind that not all smart appliance offer up such valuable information to cybercriminals . `` Will [ hacker ] make their way onto my washing machine or refrigerator and see how much milk I have ? '' say Symantec 's Harrison . `` I be not sure too many hacker would care about that kind of thing . '' But for gadget that do transmit information that could line a hacker 's pocket , Harrison recommends take a few precautionary measure . `` Think before you click , '' Harrison say . `` Users should be careful with which link they click on , even from people they know . If an email seem vague or out of character for that person , do n't open it or click on the link . Just click on a malicious link can silently infect your system with a drive-by download . '' And if you 're worry that your TV or webcam be spy on you , Harrison say , there 's a low-tech fix for that : Simply put a piece of tape over the camera . To far thwart those nasty spy , consider a security software solution for all your device , especially the one you bring everywhere . And never underestimate the power of a good password . This story be provide by TechNewsDaily , a sister site to LiveScience . Follow Elizabeth Palermo @ techEpalermo . Follow u @ TechNewsDaily , on Facebook or on Google+ . This story be originally publish on TechNewsDaily . 8 Hidden Smartphone Threats to Watch For 5 Places to Look for Your Digital Footprint 13 Security , Privacy Tips for the Truly Paranoid Copyright 2013 LiveScience , a TechMediaNetwork company . All right reserve . This material may not be publish , broadcast , rewritten or redistribute . Technology & Electronics Handheld & Connected Devices Click to view comment View Comments ( 161 ) What to read next Trending Actor Harrison Ford injure in small plane crash near Los Angeles : report Reuters How Older Men Are Building Muscle Sponsored Force Factor Trending Air Force veterans suicide shed light on female soldier and PTSD Yahoo News Trending Attack on US envoy part of S.Korea 's violent protest history Associated Press Trending Double the Trouble Found Under Hawaii 's Kilauea Volcano LiveScience.com Tim Tam and Zumbo : The Sweet Story Sponsored Arnott 's Tim Tam Trending Delta plane skid off runway in snowstorm at New Yorks LaGuardia Yahoo News Trending Boston Marathon bombing survivor write open letter to Tsarnaev hour after testify Yahoo News Trending IS 'bulldozed ' ancient Assyrian city of Nimrud , Iraq say AFP How Older Men Are Building Muscle Sponsored Force Factor Trending Encuentran cadver momificado de alpinista en el Pico de Orizaba Exclsior Trending Strange circumstance surround gold heist on Interstate 95 Associated Press Trending $ 15 Million Jackpot for Engaged Massachusetts Couple Good Morning America The new Surface Pro 3 Sponsored Microsoft Trending First responder clear snow off roof of man who they try to save Trending Now Trending An ocean away , Pacquiao 's trainer make some noise from afar Associated Press Trending When in Paris : Kim Kardashian and Jared Leto go platinum Associated Press The best time to look for a new job Sponsored Seek Trending Colossal snowstorm strand motorist on Kentucky highway Yahoo News Photos 'One Hundred Portraits : Women Artists ' a photographic survey of woman artist Yahoo News Photos Delta plane skid off runway in snowstorm at New York 's LaGuardia Yahoo News Get together with room for the whole family Sponsored Stayz Photos 50 year after `` Bloody Sunday '' at the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma , Alabama Yahoo News Photos Mark Lippert , U.S . Ambassador to South Korea , attack Yahoo News Photos Photos of the day - March 4 , 2015 Yahoo News It 's The Big One at Nissan Sponsored Nissan Photos Turkish jetliner skid off on runway Yahoo News Photos Boston Marathon bombing trial Yahoo News 'I know in my head that I need to act quickly' When I get to work Sponsored Nokia Lumia 830 Single mom live in one-car garage for $ 1K a month Eva Longoria sizzle in tight grey dress Photos 12 thing to avoid buying in bulk 0 % p.a . for the first 16 month balance transfer* Sponsored ANZ Why this man be fin $ 60K for barely speed 'Hot mom ' expose her flaw for inspire reason Can you name all 7 dwarf for $ 2,100 ? World-class theatre on Sydney 's stage Sponsored Destination NSW Mom who post lullaby court for record deal Madonna Falls Hard Performing at Brit Awards TV In No Time Behind The Veil on A Broad Abroad A Broad Abroad Savour a Yarra Valley wine Sponsored Tourism Victoria Senator Rand Paul slam Hillary Clinton in interview with Katie Couric Katie Couric News Video KG 's Game Introduction NBA.com Chateau de Gudanes Yahoo Acquired Video Microcaps , best through a specialise Fund Manager Sponsored Microequities The Nasdaq 's new record - embrace it Yahoo Finance Video Why Am I Sore 2 Days After A Workout ? Yahoo Health Yahoo - ABC News Network Help / Suggestions Privacy About Our Ads Terms forget the nsa : your tech gadget are spying on you - yahoo news home mail search news sport finance weather game answer screen flickr mobile more celebrity movie music tv group health style beauty food parent maker tech shop travel auto home install the new firefox skip to navigation skip to main content skip to right rail sign in mail help account info help suggestion follow yahoo news on facebook on twitter on tumblr on google+ on flickr news home u.s . world politics tech science health odd news local dear abby comic abc news yahoo original photo recommended game more game watch live : actor harrison ford injure in single-pilot plane crash in california forget the nsa : your tech gadget are spying on you by elizabeth palermo , technewsdaily contributor june 13 , 2013 1:01 pm content preference done . view photo forget the nsa : your tech gadget are spying on you recent headline about prism the u.s. government program that allow security official to spy on people internet activity confirm what conspiracy theorists have long be foretell : big brother be watch . but be the government the only one keep tab on what you search for , watch and discus with friend ? the truth be , there be others out there businesses , advertiser , scammer hop to line their pocket by collecting your personal data . and they have a variety of tool at their disposal to gather the information they need tool you might even have with you right now . that 's right everything from the smartphone in your pocket to the television in your bedroom can potentially be use to spy on you . here be some ordinary gadget with serious spy potential . smartphones you know your phone be smart , but just how smart be it ? smart enough to sense your every movement . smart enough to capture your every word . smartphones possess an arsenal of powerful feature include microphone , gps receiver , accelerometer and wi-fi antennas that be mean to help user communicate and access information , but those very same tool can also be use for spying . john harrison , a representative with security software company symantec , say mobile device be increasingly play host to the kind of malware once find only on pc , such a remote-access trojan ( rat ) . rat turn device into bond-esque spy tool , steal password , record video and audio , and launch attack on other system . and smartphones be also vulnerable to other kind of hack . in 2010 , researcher at rutgers university in new jersey perform a series of rootkit attack on smartphones , demonstrate how to remotely activate a device 's microphone to secretly record conversation . the researcher be also able to install malware that allow them to track a user 's movement use the phone 's gps receiver . accord to the researcher , smartphone malware be even more dangerous than malware design for nonmobile operating system because user take their phone everywhere they go . an infect desktop computer might record all the conversation you have in your home office , but a smartphone can record all those top-secret meeting you attend at headquarters or next week 's clandestine rendezvous . but even if you do n't have secret to keep , your sneaky smartphone can still cause trouble . last october , researcher with the u.s. military develop an android app that create a 3d map of a phone 's surroundings by take candid photo and collect orientation data with the phone 's accelerometer . the app , dub `` placeraider , '' pose as an innocuous camera app and sends sensitive smartphone data to an external server . thanks to this app , burglar , identity thief and other criminal could have a real-time blueprint of your home or business . they could even zoom in on noteworthy section of the map , like that pile of financial statement on the desk or your open underwear drawer . and most recently , researcher at the university of alabama find that smartphones be susceptible to an entirely new kind of threat know a a `` context-aware '' attack . such attack activate malware via sound-based , magnetic or visual stimulus . this type of malware could turn your phone into a sleeper agent , allow your trusted device to silently bide it time before spilling all your secret to some cybercriminal at the drop of a heavy bass line . tablet if your smartphone turn against you , at least you still have your trusty tablet , right ? wrong . most tablet have the same operating system a well a the same built-in spy tool a smartphones do . take the accelerometer , for example . much like a smartphone , your tablet come equip with a little device that sens the orientation of your tablet . hence , when you flip the tablet sideways , the screen flip with it . but the accelerometer also have the potential to flip your whole world upside down . a 2011 study by researcher at the university of california , davis demonstrate how to use an accelerometer to steal usernames and password . the researcher keylogger app measure the physical motion make when touch onscreen key and can detect which key be touch with 70 percent accuracy . if instal on your tablet , the `` touchlogger `` app could provide scammer with all the information they need to wreak havoc on your digital world . smart tv so your mobile device be all sneaky robot , but what about the stationary gadget you keep at home ? surely , those be trustworthy . actually , they 're not . in december 2012 , cybersecurity firm revuln discover a flaw in samsung 's then-newest-generation of smart tv . the flaw grant hacker access to viewer ' sensitive data , such a view history and remote file . it also let hacker spread malware to usb device attach to tv . luigi auriemma and donato ferrante , co-ceos of revuln , say any device that take an input from the environment , whether it 's use wi-fi or some other mean , be vulnerable . `` it 's also interesting to consider that even a device not accessible from the internet be at risk because it can be attack from lan [ a local area network ] through a compromise pc , or via other attack vector like usb or bluetooth , '' auriemma and ferrante write in an email interview with technewsdaily . a more home device , like tv and game console , come equip with these `` attack vector , '' they say , the chance of spyware spread to every device you own increase exponentially . take , for example , the flame ( aka flamer , aka skywiper ) malware toolkit of 2012 . that piece of mega-malware be spread from usb to usb , infect hundred of machine run window xp , vista and 7 operate system . once infect , hacker use compromise computer to perform some of the most advanced spy maneuver the world have ever see . flame which be believe to have be develop by an unknown national government could detect keystroke , take screenshots , monitor user activity both on and offline , record conversation and even spy on other device connect to the same wi-fi network . it then send this data to a dozen different server around the world . imagine the espionage that could occur if such spyware be compatible with mobile operating system , like android , or if it could be spread over the internet a well a through usb device . cable box you 're probably think that because your tv be n't connect to the internet , your television habit be safe from the prying eye of hacker and other unsavory character , and you might be right . but then again , you might be wrong . although idea about how to hack this type of device be still in their infancy , the mere possibility that it could happen could introduce privacy concern . in 2011 , verizon submit a patent application for a tv set-top cable box equip with motion and audio sensor that track viewer ' every movement and utterance , all for the sake of bombard them with targeted advertisement . if the patent be ever approve , verizon 's voyeuristic device will be sure to wipe away any illusion you have about your privacy in the presence of consumer electronics . game console while spy cable box be not yet a reality , spy xboxes be . ever since microsoft debut it first kinect-compatible xbox console in 2010 , gamers have be speculate about whether theyre be spy on in their bedroom . this year , microsoft be set to roll out a new console , the xbox one and rumor about it cyborglike capability , couple with microsoft's ambiguous language surround user privacy , be n't do much to calm those fear . like it predecessor , the one connect to the internet through the xbox live service , which must be manually shut off when not in use . that 's right , unless you remember to shut it off , the one will be watch . but what do the one do with the data it collect from gamers ? be this information sent directly to mordor ? to microsoft ? unfortunately , that much be n't completely clear . however , it 's worth mentioning that much like verizon , microsoft also submit a patent application in 2011 for an app most likely for the xbox one that would track xbox user tv watch and then reward them with advertiser coupon and other promotion . accord to the verge , these reward would be grant to user who watch an entire television series from start to finish , or to those who do n't leave the room during commercial . smart meter right now , you 're probably think , `` i 'll just give up play video game , stop watch tv and flush my cellphone down the toilet . '' but before you do anything drastic , you should know this : they 'll still be watch you . `` smart '' technology such a refrigerator with touch screen , and wireless electric meter might help you save money on your utility bill , but these connect device also help hacker peer into your home . last year , a group of german researcher demonstrate the inherent vulnerability in smart-meter system by hack into an electric company 's wireless network and intercept the supposedly private information of it user . equipped with a digital fingerprint of a home 's power usage , the researcher could tell when resident be at home , away or asleep . they could even tell what movie people be watch in their living room . although cybercriminals be likely not interested in your preference for the original toy story movie , they might like to know when you 're spend the week in disneyland . but keep in mind that not all smart appliance offer up such valuable information to cybercriminals . `` will [ hacker ] make their way onto my washing machine or refrigerator and see how much milk i have ? '' say symantec 's harrison . `` i be not sure too many hacker would care about that kind of thing . '' but for gadget that do transmit information that could line a hacker 's pocket , harrison recommends take a few precautionary measure . `` think before you click , '' harrison say . `` user should be careful with which link they click on , even from people they know . if an email seem vague or out of character for that person , do n't open it or click on the link . just click on a malicious link can silently infect your system with a drive-by download . '' and if you 're worry that your tv or webcam be spy on you , harrison say , there 's a low-tech fix for that : simply put a piece of tape over the camera . to far thwart those nasty spy , consider a security software solution for all your device , especially the one you bring everywhere . and never underestimate the power of a good password . this story be provide by technewsdaily , a sister site to livescience . follow elizabeth palermo @ techepalermo . follow u @ technewsdaily , on facebook or on google+ . this story be originally publish on technewsdaily . 8 hidden smartphone threat to watch for 5 place to look for your digital footprint 13 security , privacy tip for the truly paranoid copyright 2013 livescience , a techmedianetwork company . all right reserve . this material may not be publish , broadcast , rewritten or redistribute . technology & electronics handheld & connected device click to view comment view comment ( 161 ) what to read next trend actor harrison ford injure in small plane crash near los angeles : report reuters how older men are building muscle sponsored force factor trend air force veterans suicide shed light on female soldier and ptsd yahoo news trend attack on u envoy part of s.korea 's violent protest history associated press trend double the trouble found under hawaii 's kilauea volcano livescience.com tim tam and zumbo : the sweet story sponsored arnott 's tim tam trend delta plane skid off runway in snowstorm at new york laguardia yahoo news trend boston marathon bombing survivor write open letter to tsarnaev hour after testify yahoo news trend be 'bulldozed ' ancient assyrian city of nimrud , iraq say afp how older men are building muscle sponsored force factor trend encuentran cadver momificado de alpinista en el pico de orizaba exclsior trend strange circumstance surround gold heist on interstate 95 associated press trend $ 15 million jackpot for engaged massachusetts couple good morning america the new surface pro 3 sponsored microsoft trend first responder clear snow off roof of man who they try to save trend now trend an ocean away , pacquiao 's trainer make some noise from afar associated press trend when in paris : kim kardashian and jared leto go platinum associated press the best time to look for a new job sponsored seek trend colossal snowstorm strand motorist on kentucky highway yahoo news photo 'one hundred portrait : woman artist ' a photographic survey of woman artist yahoo news photo delta plane skid off runway in snowstorm at new york 's laguardia yahoo news get together with room for the whole family sponsored stayz photo 50 year after `` bloody sunday '' at the edmund pettus bridge in selma , alabama yahoo news photo mark lippert , u.s . ambassador to south korea , attack yahoo news photo photo of the day - march 4 , 2015 yahoo news it 's the big one at nissan sponsored nissan photo turkish jetliner skid off on runway yahoo news photo boston marathon bombing trial yahoo news 'i know in my head that i need to act quickly' when i get to work sponsored nokia lumia 830 single mom live in one-car garage for $ 1k a month eva longoria sizzle in tight grey dress photo 12 thing to avoid buying in bulk 0 % p.a . for the first 16 month balance transfer* sponsored anz why this man be fin $ 60k for barely speed 'hot mom ' expose her flaw for inspire reason can you name all 7 dwarf for $ 2,100 ? world-class theatre on sydney 's stage sponsored destination nsw mom who post lullaby court for record deal madonna fall hard performing at brit award tv in no time behind the veil on a broad abroad a broad abroad savour a yarra valley wine sponsored tourism victoria senator rand paul slam hillary clinton in interview with katie couric katie couric news video kg 's game introduction nba.com chateau de gudanes yahoo acquired video microcaps , best through a specialise fund manager sponsored microequities the nasdaq 's new record - embrace it yahoo finance video why be i sore 2 day after a workout ? yahoo health yahoo - abc news network help / suggestion privacy about our ad term 