Citizens Utility Board | Consumer Tips | The fact on smart meter The fact on smart meter ( For a pdf version , click here ) What be smart meter ? ComEd and Ameren aim to replace old analog electric meter with smart meter , also call digital or advanced meter . Analog meter have tiny mechanical dial that someoneyou or a utility workerhas to read each month in order to measure a home power usage . The new meter have a digital face , and unlike traditional meter , they can sendautomatically and almost instantlyyour power usage to the utility use a wireless radio . What be radio frequency ? Radio wave and micro wave emit by transmitting antennascollectively call radio frequency or RF energyare a form of electromagnetic energy . RF energy be use in many commonly-used household item , such a radio , television , cell phone , wireless laptop , walkie-talkie , baby monitor , garage door opener , microwave oven , and now , digital meter . How do digital meter use radio frequency ? Digital meter use a low-power wireless radio to communicate with the utility , periodically transmit real-time customer energy-usage information . This information can help the utility company well manage the power grid , quickly detect and isolate power outage , and help reduce meter-reading cost . Customers , on the other hand , gain real-time access to their own home energy usage , help them to well control cost . Digital meter communicate with the utility only periodically , mean theyre not always emit RF . In fact , California utility PG & E estimate a typical digital meter communicate with the utility a little a one minute a day . And unlike cell phone , you dont hold a meter to your ear . The device often be on the other side of a wall or tuck away in the basement . At 10 foot away , PG & E report , a digital meter communicate with the utility emit 300 time less RF than a typical cell phone . Is radio frequency dangerous ? Although some critic have voice concern that radio frequency from digital meter pose a health risk , the device RF level , even at maximum capacity , fall far below Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) safety standardstypically 70 time lessand far below RF level use in many common household device . RF emission in microwatts per square centimeter ( W/cm2 ) FM radio or TV broadcast station signal 0.005 Digital meter at 10 foot 0.1 At a coffee shop with Wi-Fi 10-20 Using a laptop computer 10-20 Talking on a cell phone ( held to head ) 30-10,000 Microwave oven , two inch from door 5,000 Exposure to very high level of RF radiation warms body tissue , produce a thermal effect that can be harmful . But the low level of RF utilize by digital meter and other household device have not be show to produce this thermal effect . In it 2011 report , Health Impacts of Radio Frequency Exposure from Smart Meters , the California Council on Science and Technology ( CCST ) write that wireless smart meter , when instal and properly maintain , result in much smaller level of radio frequency ( RF ) exposure than many exist common household electronic device , particularly cell phone and microwave oven . In addition , there have be no conclusive evidence of any damaging non-thermal effect produce by the RF use in common electronics , like cell phone or digital smart meter . Given current scientific knowledge the FCC guideline provide an adequate margin of safety against know RF effect , the CCST write . What potential health benefit do digital meter support ? The clean energy be the energy consumer dont use . Not only can digital meter help utility and consumer cut their cost , but the energy efficiency they promote have key environmental and health benefit . When utility become more efficient in distributing power and consumer use less energy , they rely less on power create by coal plant that have be link to significant health problem . In fact , a 2010 study by the Clean Air Task Force link pollution from coal-fired power plant in Chicago to more than 40 death , 60 heart attack and 700 asthma attack annually . Are there privacy concern with digital meter ? Utilities be mandate by Illinois law to secure the privacy of the customer personal information , such a name , address , telephone number , and data about electricity usage . Under the state Energy Infrastructure and Modernization Act ( SB 1652 ) , utility , their contractor or agent , and any third party be prohibit from use such information for mail list or other commercial purpose . Fundamental to any smart grid be that it be embed with sensor to constantly monitor the grid for any outage or potential cyber-att acks . Illinois be a national leader in cybersecurity . The National Center for Supercomputing Applications ( NCSA ) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , focus on develop cutt ing-edge software to improve that aspect of the smartgrid . Will the utility have more control over my power usage and shut my power off ? The smart grid be about give customer morenot less control over their power bill . A smart grid do make it easy to shut off power to customer who be steal electricity or not pay their bill . It also help identify customer who be simply not be bill , a well a vacant office where the power have yet to be turn off . If such cost remain undetected , all customer must cover them , and thats one way a smart grid can make the system more fair and save consumer billion of dollar . Summary Like many common household itemsTV , radio , baby monitor , garage door openerdigital meter emit low level of electromagnetic energy , call radio frequency , or RF . The RF level emit by a digital meteron the outside of your home or tuck away in your basementare well within FCC safety guideline , and be much low than many household item , include a microwave and cell phone . CUB be open to and interested in receiving any new research on digital meter , but there be no conclusive scientific evidence that suggests RF from a digital meter pose a health risk . Tweet citizen utility board | consumer tip | the fact on smart meter the fact on smart meter ( for a pdf version , click here ) what be smart meter ? come and ameren aim to replace old analog electric meter with smart meter , also call digital or advanced meter . analog meter have tiny mechanical dial that someoneyou or a utility workerhas to read each month in order to measure a home power usage . the new meter have a digital face , and unlike traditional meter , they can sendautomatically and almost instantlyyour power usage to the utility use a wireless radio . what be radio frequency ? radio wave and micro wave emit by transmitting antennascollectively call radio frequency or rf energyare a form of electromagnetic energy . rf energy be use in many commonly-used household item , such a radio , television , cell phone , wireless laptop , walkie-talkie , baby monitor , garage door opener , microwave oven , and now , digital meter . how do digital meter use radio frequency ? digital meter use a low-power wireless radio to communicate with the utility , periodically transmit real-time customer energy-usage information . this information can help the utility company well manage the power grid , quickly detect and isolate power outage , and help reduce meter-reading cost . customer , on the other hand , gain real-time access to their own home energy usage , help them to well control cost . digital meter communicate with the utility only periodically , mean theyre not always emit rf . in fact , california utility pg & e estimate a typical digital meter communicate with the utility a little a one minute a day . and unlike cell phone , you dont hold a meter to your ear . the device often be on the other side of a wall or tuck away in the basement . at 10 foot away , pg & e report , a digital meter communicate with the utility emit 300 time less rf than a typical cell phone . be radio frequency dangerous ? although some critic have voice concern that radio frequency from digital meter pose a health risk , the device rf level , even at maximum capacity , fall far below federal communication commission ( fcc ) safety standardstypically 70 time lessand far below rf level use in many common household device . rf emission in microwatts per square centimeter ( w/cm2 ) fm radio or tv broadcast station signal 0.005 digital meter at 10 foot 0.1 at a coffee shop with wi-fi 10-20 use a laptop computer 10-20 talk on a cell phone ( held to head ) 30-10,000 microwave oven , two inch from door 5,000 exposure to very high level of rf radiation warms body tissue , produce a thermal effect that can be harmful . but the low level of rf utilize by digital meter and other household device have not be show to produce this thermal effect . in it 2011 report , health impact of radio frequency exposure from smart meter , the california council on science and technology ( ccst ) write that wireless smart meter , when instal and properly maintain , result in much smaller level of radio frequency ( rf ) exposure than many exist common household electronic device , particularly cell phone and microwave oven . in addition , there have be no conclusive evidence of any damaging non-thermal effect produce by the rf use in common electronics , like cell phone or digital smart meter . given current scientific knowledge the fcc guideline provide an adequate margin of safety against know rf effect , the ccst write . what potential health benefit do digital meter support ? the clean energy be the energy consumer dont use . not only can digital meter help utility and consumer cut their cost , but the energy efficiency they promote have key environmental and health benefit . when utility become more efficient in distributing power and consumer use less energy , they rely less on power create by coal plant that have be link to significant health problem . in fact , a 2010 study by the clean air task force link pollution from coal-fired power plant in chicago to more than 40 death , 60 heart attack and 700 asthma attack annually . are there privacy concern with digital meter ? utility be mandate by illinois law to secure the privacy of the customer personal information , such a name , address , telephone number , and data about electricity usage . under the state energy infrastructure and modernization act ( sb 1652 ) , utility , their contractor or agent , and any third party be prohibit from use such information for mail list or other commercial purpose . fundamental to any smart grid be that it be embed with sensor to constantly monitor the grid for any outage or potential cyber-att acks . illinois be a national leader in cybersecurity . the national center for supercomputing application ( ncsa ) at the university of illinois at urbana-champaign , focus on develop cutt ing-edge software to improve that aspect of the smartgrid . will the utility have more control over my power usage and shut my power off ? the smart grid be about give customer morenot less control over their power bill . a smart grid do make it easy to shut off power to customer who be steal electricity or not pay their bill . it also help identify customer who be simply not be bill , a well a vacant office where the power have yet to be turn off . if such cost remain undetected , all customer must cover them , and thats one way a smart grid can make the system more fair and save consumer billion of dollar . summary like many common household itemstv , radio , baby monitor , garage door openerdigital meter emit low level of electromagnetic energy , call radio frequency , or rf . the rf level emit by a digital meteron the outside of your home or tuck away in your basementare well within fcc safety guideline , and be much low than many household item , include a microwave and cell phone . cub be open to and interested in receiving any new research on digital meter , but there be no conclusive scientific evidence that suggests rf from a digital meter pose a health risk . tweet 