Saving Money on Your Electric Bill | ThriftyFun Browse Crafts , Recipes , Tips , & Guides Contests Enter Contests Share & Vote Get Advice Submit a Question Search Share | Newsletters | Account | About Browse > Contests > Ask > Share > Newsletters > Account > About > Browse ThriftyFun Better Living Budget & Finance Business and Legal Christmas Computers Consumer Advice Crafts Education Entertainment Food and Recipes Garage Sales Gardening Health & Beauty Holidays and Parties Home and Garden Home Improvement Make Your Own Organizing Parenting Pets Photos Recipes ThriftyFun FAQ Travel and Recreation Weddings Saving Money on Your Electric Bill 0 0 Email Follow Finding way to save money on your electric bill can really help the family budget . This be a guide about save money on your electric bill . Ad 25 Solutions Share 9 Questions Ask 0 Photos Share Related Solutions : Saving Money on Your Electric Bill Share a Solution Read and rate the best solution below by giving them a `` thumb up '' . Tip : Tiny Changes To Save Electricity The recent essay on save money on fuel bill in small way get me think . I be get annoy with myself because I be waste so much power boil and reboiling my electric kettle . I keep forget to only heat a much water a I need and leave the coffee maker heating ring on all day . Realizing that there must be an answer to all this waste , I make these change to my daily routine to save some electricity and some of my precious cash ! I find a 5 pint pump action vacuum flask on sale for $ 2 , a fantastic bargain , but they can be pick up for around $ 10 . I boil the electric kettle twice in the morning , fill the flask and have hot water for tea on tap all day . If there be anything leave come the evening , I use it for cook or dish washing . The answer to the coffee problem be far more simple , I make the coffee , turn off the machine , then microwave it a cup at a time a I need it . It taste good and save me money too . Such tiny change in our way of do thing may seem insignificant on a daily basis , but they can add up to make a difference at the end of the month when we open the bill . By Ayesha from Kranj 10 0 Read 6 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Save Electricity with Motion Detector Light Switches A good way to save on electric bill , especially when you have someone in the home who forgets to turn out the light , be to install motion detector switch . These be great . They turn themselves on when you enter the room and off when you exit . By Carla from Huntington , WV 6 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Tip : Check for Energy Draining Devices at Night Cutting back on your electrical usage can be easy IF you know where to look . This exercise must be do after dark , with the light off , if possible . Walk around each room and look for red or green light on appliance and electrical device . Your television , cable box and the DVD player , coffee maker and electric toothbrush charger , etc . probably all have the indicator , which mean your appliance be pull electricity EVEN when not in use , add dollar to your electric bill . These phantom energy drain can be a large part of your annual energy bill . Evaluate how important each device be and consider unplug . OR if that be too drastic , plug like device into a power strip and turn the strip on when you be ready to use the television/DVD , for example . You may be pleasantly surprise when you receive your next bill . A little inconvenience can add up to BIG saving . Source : LG and E PowerSource Customer letter , April 2009 edition By skibum1910 from Prospect , KY 6 0 Read 2 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Unplug It And Save On Electric Bills In Florida , electric bill run high , particularly in the summer . I save on my electric bill in two way : First , I hang my clothes to dry , only use my dryer to de-wrinkle the clothes . In this way , the dryer be on for only 20 minute vs. over an hour . Second , I unplug everything that be not be use : the microwave , the toaster , the hair dryer , the cell phone charger , the computer , the washer and dryer . Although it be minimal , these item still use electricity even when dormant . We probably save around $ 20 or more a month just by unplugging everything . By combining these two method , along with have cool weather and be able to turn off our A/C , last month we have our low electric bill since moving into our house ( which have vault ceiling ) from an apartment . Contact your local electric company for more idea on how to use less and save more -- they be glad to help . By Lynne from Orlando , FL 5 0 Read 16 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Keep Your Freezer Full To Save On Electricity Here be a way to be green and prepare for an emergency at the same time . I rinse out 2 liter soda and juice bottle and fill them 2/3 full with clean water . I then lay them almost on their side ( without the lid on tight ) , lean against something , in our large freezer . The next day I screw the lid on tight . This keep my freezer full so that it use less electricity . The bonus : If we ever have a water outage , I have gallon of water to rely on . I also grab one or two to use in my ice chest when need . By Suzy from UT 13 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Tip : Wait To Preheat Oven Almost every recipe I have for bake good begin with `` Preheat Oven . '' While this may be a time saver , it be not a money saver . Especially if , like me , you have distraction and the ten minutes it should take to prepare the recipe turn into thirty minute . Today I wait until after I have prepare my recipe to turn the oven on . While it preheat , I finish clean the kitchen . Just a I complete , the oven be ready . I save about 20 minute of 'electric ' . Over a month 's time I believe this will add up significantly since an electric oven be a high electric use appliance . By Donna from Crystal River , FL 3 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Tip : Tips For Saving On Electricity First , swap out any incandescent light with compact fluorescent , even your exterior light . I discover the latter when my outside light , an incandescent , keep burn out every few week . I never have need to replace the fluorescent that went in it place . Nowadays , there be even spotlight that be fluorescent . Second , my exterior yard light be on motion sensor , the front yard light be on daylight sensor and go on at dusk . Third , I use smart sensor inside . For the TV and applicable equipment , generally one plug control the others , i.e . if the TV plug be insert there , only when the TV be switch on can those item in the `` controlled '' outlet amongst the others can be turn on . For instance , the latter might include your amplifier and your DVD player , if you watch a lot of movie . These `` controlled '' outlet may or may not include your VCR , depend on whether you use it a lot or not . For instance , if you record a lot of show to your VCR , you 'll want to plug that item into one of the `` always on '' outlet , otherwise it clock and hence the way your program can be accurately record will be switch off . Another candidate for `` always on '' outlet would be something that do n't draw power when off , such a a tape rewinder or a lamp . Another great candidate for these `` smart '' power strip be you computer and associate equipment . Video game be an excellent item to have on such strip , for they ( it 's my understanding ) surprisingly do n't have the rigid power efficiency standard that TVs , DVDs , etc . have . Fourthly , I use a product call Kill-A-Watt to measure the power use by whatever 's plugged into it . Large power user , of course , be thing like refrigerator , dishwasher , washer , dryer , water heater , and even furnace can be replace with more-efficient model , in some case have rebate from your utility company a well a the federal government . Between this and the electricity saving , the new unit may pay for itself . Of course , with furnace , improve insulation in wall , ceiling , floor , in unheated area such a , around pipe , and under the water heater ( and wrap the water heater ) , closing gap in window , duct , and where pipe enter the home will reduce power usage a well . Last , do n't leave power charger plug in after the item have finish charge , such a for cell phone and laptop . By abc from Shoreline , WA 3 0 Read 3 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Use Timer on Bathroom Light We live in a two story home and the kid always manage to leave the upstairs bathroom or hallway light on . I do n't notice it until after they have leave for school . I then have to walk a flight of stair to turn off the light . I purchase a light timer switch and replace the on/off switch in the bathroom and the light will cut itself off after 15-30 minute depend on how far around it be turn . No more run up the stair . By kimsukie from Florissant , Missouri 3 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Tip : Saving Money on Electricity This week I think I would share some idea on how our family have save money on our electric/gas bill . We have find that this particular bill have be one of our easiest to control . There be a several different thing you can do to keep this bill under control . We use budget bill with our electric company , so each month we know exactly how much our bill will be . They re-calculate our bill every 6 month , but it doesnt usually vary all that much . Our bill payment , at this time , be $ 113/mo . That be winter time in Iowa . Granted , we have have a mild winter , but it be still cold and our furnace do still run . We set our thermostat at 60 degree F during the day . At 5:00 pm , it go to 65 and stay there until 10:00 pm , at which time it go back to 60 overnight . If we get cold , we put on sweater or a blanket . I know that not everyone can have it this cool in the house . If you have children , or for the elderly , I would suggest a setting of 65-68 degree . The elderly may need to go even warm . If you and your family be dress warm , you will probably stay warm . By all mean , be safe and dont compromise your health . We turn off all light when we leave a room . That be a hard thing , it seem , to teach kid , but they can learn and it will save a bundle . If you use a power strip , you can actually turn the strip off when it not in use and save even more . I hang most of our clothing up to dry . The only thing I put in my dryer be bed and our bath towel . In the summer , I dont use the dryer at all , but make use of my clothesline . In the winter , I use dry rack . When summer come around , we dont turn on the air condition until it almost intolerably hot . We use fan , strategically place throughout the house to pull air through . Having cold drink in the refrigerator also help so much . If you have kid , fill their pool outside and enjoy spending time with them and keep cool at the same time . Wear loose , cotton clothing . Cotton breathe good than most other material and it help keep you cool . When we do turn on the central air , we set our thermostat at 78-80 degree F. We have ceiling fan in every room in our house except the bathroom . They be pretty inexpensive to run a well . Dont run heat-producing appliance . Eat fresh , cool meal and use your slow cooker , microwave or grill for meal . Again , at this time of year , do what you need to do to stay safe and not compromise your health . Using your microwave or slow cooker be less expensive to use than your oven . I use my slow cooker on a regular basis . Unplug appliance you be not use , a they continue to draw a small amount of energy if they be plug in , even if you be not use them . Also , concern appliance , keep the coil on your refrigerator clean to help it run more efficiently and also last longer . Appliances be very expensive to fix and replace . I do only full load of laundry and only full load in the dishwasher and I dont use the heated dry cycle on my dishwasher . I let the dish air dry . Again , no sense in use the electricity . Washing clothe in cold water help save on our gas bill a our water heater be gas . Sometimes I do wash in warm , but most time cold water will get thing just a clean . During the day , I open all my blind and curtain in the house and take advantage of the sun light . Even if it be a cloudy day , there be usually plenty of light so that it not necessary to turn on any light in the house . None of these thing be big or difficult thing to do , but they have save u an incredible amount on our utility . Our bill be much low than most of our friend bill . Hope these thing be helpful ! By Robin from Washington , IA 2 0 Read 7 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Clothes Washing Savings Wash clothe in cold water , and skip the dryer . A regular load of wash and wear can be hang on the shower curtain rod . Start slow , one load per week = 52 load a year . Family member may catch on . Good luck . By Caroline from Syracuse , NY 2 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Tip : Where to Buy LED Light Bulbs Using LED light bulb be one of the best way to save money on your electric bill . These Philips LED may look odd but they work great and only use 10.5 watt to equal a 60 watt incandescent bulb . Philips 433235 10.5-watt SlimStyle A19 Daylight LED Light Bulb , Dimmable 1 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Tip : Use a Coolbox Instead of a Fridge If you live alone and have a freezer , you can use it to freeze cold cell for a coolbox , so that you do n't need to use electricity run a fridge a well . My daily routine includes change my cold cell when I get up , and when I go to bed . I also put anything that I 'm defrost into the coolbox in place of a cold cell , and I always freeze my milk when I first buy it , then leave it in the coolbox , use it gradually a it defrost . The only item that have go off be one that would have do so if I 'd have them in the fridge - some soft herb cheese and some mozzarella , both well past their use by date . My coolbox be one of the polystyrene container that be use for freeze food or vaccine , so it do n't cost me anything . By Verity [ 20 ] 1 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Article : The Electric Bill Battle Every month I open the electric bill and accept it with quiet discontent . However , this month the bill be too high to ignore . I step away from my desk and take a 360 degree look around my home . What do I see ? A giant electric sucking vortex of waste energy . I immediately blame the seven-year-old light flick , TV view , aquarium own member of the family . However , he be not the only one to blame . With him in tow , I decide to single-handedly battle the unnecessary use of electric in our home . Battling Standby Power It do n't take long for u to adapt our power consumption . Only a quick talk to my son inform him of the problem with leave light on when not in the room , and he 's now the Power Policeman of the house . However , the electric still continue to seep into my home , but from where ? Standby power be the culprit . When appliance be off but plug in , many of them still drain power . While the consumption be much le than when the appliance be turn on , it still pull a few watt at a time for nothing . Yet , I be n't ready to turn into my grandmother who unplugs everything from her toaster to her lamp when they 're not in use . Her electric consumption be admirable , but I 'm not that devote . Indicators of standby power vampire be easy to spot . These feature often pull electric even when the appliance be off : a large box power adapter on the power cord or plug an appliance or power cord that feel warm even when the product be turn off anything cordless that have a recharging base ( it pull electric whether the battery be fully charge or not ) appliance that have a standby light on them The only solution to completely eliminate this electric pull during down time be to unplug the item or to plug them into power strip and flick the power switch off . Where Can I Save ? Unplugging some of these device do n't stop the electric seepage . There be other accessory that increase the usage of each appliance . Think about your surge protector and power strip . Each one pull a bit of electric when the red light be on . Consider shutting down your computer equipment at night and flick off the surge protector . While the protector be make to protect electrical surge from ruin your equipment , the close circuit create when the equipment be off protects it just a well . With the equipment turn off and the surge protector turn off , severe surge have a fraction of a chance to hurt your equipment . Who Are the Main Culprits ? Types of electronics lend themselves to standby power usage more than others . It 's safe to assume that all of these electronics pull some power whether on or off : microwave video game console flat screen and plasma television audio and video equipment ( look for the standby indicator ) cordless phone laptop charger ( whether the laptop be plug in to the cord or not ) light and motion sense lamp digital display surge adaptor strip and plug By Kelly Ann Butterbaugh 1 0 Read 4 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Use Timer Light Switches for Easily Forgotten Lights Purchase timer light switch and install in the bathroom , kid room or any room be light may be forget on . The timer automatically shut the light off after 15 to 60 minute or whatever the time be on the one you purchase . No more light on in the upstairs bathroom that you do n't notice until after the kid be go . By Kimsukie from Happytown USA 1 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Tip : Save on Hot Water Bills If you have an electric water heater , turn your hot water heater off when you go out of town , or even when you leave for the day . It will cut your electric bill ! By Judy - Louisville , KY 1 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Tip : Use Batteries Instead Of Electricity To save on electricity during peak cost , use a battery operate radio . I also use a battery operate lamp in my bedroom . The battery last a long time , save money . By Sheila from Ontario 0 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Article : Can Saving Water Save Electricity ? After unplug every gadget that be n't be use , turn off every light that do n't need to burn , and replace every appliance with an energy save model , there still have to be an unseen way to save electricity . It be n't until we play Monopoly that I make the connection between the utility company . Saving water can save electricity a well . Well Pumps Use Electricity While my home tap into the public water line , those that have well water use electricity to pump their water . The connection between saving water and save electricity be an easy one for those with well pump hundred of foot below the ground , pump water and pull electricity at each turn of the spigot . To save water and therefore electricity , consider save extra water runoff from rinse dish , wet washcloth , or rinse vegetable . Plug the sink and allow it to catch extra runoff that can be use late for washing . If the runoff be dirty , let it slip down the drain . It 's the extra water from overfill sprinkling can or douse a dusty item with a spritz of water that can be reuse . Hot Water Is the Culprit The large connection between water and electricity be find in the hot water tap . If your water be heat by gas or oil , you 're still save money by use cold water . Water heating be one of the large us of energy in your home . While the water heater maintain the temperature of the water a a constant , it cost more to heat cold water than to maintain the temperature of already heat water . One mistake that many people make be to turn the faucet to the middle when draw water . We know that if we push it all the way to the right we have water that be quite cold and a turn all the way to the left produce hot water . This then lead to the assumption that midway be room temperature , when in fact midway be partially heat water . Do you fill a pitcher of water with water draw at the cold temperature or water draw halfway on the tap ? Only the water that be cold be completely draw from your water supply without add some of the heated and costlier water . Knowing this , it 's actually cheap to heat water on the stove or in the microwave than to pull already heat water from our faucet , accord to one major electric company on the east coast . Laundry be a large pull on the hot water supply . While hot water washing loosens dirt from fabric best , it should only be use on the heavily soil load . Washing in cold water usually have the same effect a washing in warm or hot water . Try adjusting the wash temperature on a few load a week and you 'll see notable saving in your hot water usage . Lastly , set the temperature on the hot water tank a few degree low . Like setting the thermostat for your house two degree low to save on heating fuel , set the water heater 's temperature low not only prevent scald , but will also save electricity . 0 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Tip : Pull the Plug on Electrical Costs One can never save enough electric . Yet , the grow concern over the cost of utility coincide with the grow concern for the health of our planet . This enable a household to cut utility cost while `` go green '' in way that be easy than ever before . ( But honestly , what come easy than turn off a light ? ) Put out your left hand to embrace green living and put out your right to embrace cheap living ; you be go to make the connection between the two . Just Unplug It We all know to turn off the light and let our computer go into sleep mode when not in use , but seemingly dormant appliance use a great bit of energy . One magazine editor recently note that by unplugging his TV , his stereo , and his unused cell phone charger he save the equivalent of one continuously burn 100 watt bulb each day . This power be know a `` standby power '' , and by understanding it , you 'll better be able to combat it . Unless your electronic item be a complete paperweight when it 's off , it most likely be pull a little standby power from the wall socket . If it use one of those bulky box on it power cord , know a a transformer , it definitely be use standby power . Count the number of those box cord in your home and you 'll be surprise . It 's probably impractical to plug and unplug your TV every time you use it . However , when it 's off , there be some power draw into it so that when you press the ON button it respond quickly . ( Think about it ; the ON button be an electronic button rather than a toggle switch , right ? ) Older set use more standby power than new set . Most newer set use less than one amp , and old set use close to 5 amp . It 's not a huge electrical usage , but it do account for 5 % of the yearly household budget once all of the television set , stereo , VCRs , microwave , and charger be take into account . Light Pollution Light pollution be a serious problem that be just come into the public 's awareness . On a dark night , count how many decorative light be burn in your neighborhood . One porch light or a driveway spotlight be a safety addition ; solar power walkway light also fall into this category . But , what about the candle in each window to give a home a colonial feel ? Floodlights that wash the front of a home in light be appeal but a heavy burden on the electrical usage . Do n't forget the white twinkle light that be string year-round for added charm . Would n't it be more charm to receive a small utility bill each month ? Try to get over the idea of `` mood light '' and set the trend for the neighborhood to be energy efficient without flood light and candle . Then , install motion sensor for your outdoor light . That way , the light be on when you need them ( either when you or an unwanted stranger enters the property ) and off when you do n't . Opt for Better Efficiency Try to replace item with more energy efficient item a often a possible . Washing clothe in cold water rather than hot can save more than $ 150 a year for the average household . Hanging clothe to dry rather than use a clothes dryer will save an additional $ 150 . Meanwhile , cool a room with ceiling fan instead of a central air condition unit can save $ 600 . It 's a small saving , but cook meat in a crock pot rather than an oven can save money and make tastier dish . A crock pot can cook for 3 hour and use only $ 0.03 while an electric oven us $ 0.20 each hour . Using the crock pot for two meal a week can save $ 18 a year . It 's minimal saving , but it 's yummy saving ! By Kelly Ann Butterbaugh 0 0 Read 6 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Borrow A `` Kill A Watt '' Monitor From Your Library Our local library offer , to member , free usage of Kill A Watt monitor for three day . There be a wait list but it be well worth the wait . Check your local library to see if they offer it . It be donate by the local power company . For those not familiar with Kill A Watt , it be a device that will monitor your electrical usage for each item in your home . This can help you make change in your usage if need be . By knowing how much power be use by an electrical item may help you save money by eliminate it or cut back . By mkymlp from NE PA 0 0 Read 1 Feedback Follow Email Print Tip : Looking At Everyday Household Energy Usage I be such a creature of habit that I often do not think of the thing I do that use expensive energy and climate change fuel . When I do put mind to try to reduce my energy footprint , the step I take often save less than I think . For instance , I seldom blow dry my hair because , it 's obvious , it use electricity to heat up the thing , and more to blow it around . So I keep simple air dryable cut . Then we measure how much electricity the darn thing us . * For my shortish fine hair , a quick warm blow us about 1/3 of a kilowatt hour and cost about $ 0.03 . I still do n't use the hairdryer much , but when I do use it on a cold winter morning , I do not feel too guilty . It be refresh to know the waffle iron make a big breakfast for 0.31 kWh , about three cent worth of electricity ( and 3.5 waffle be in the freezer ! ) The electric tea pot be a bargain , if I remember to turn it off after the tea be pour . The fridge and freezer run 24/7 . So check how much they use and replace one that be energy efficient make a real difference . Our fridge be Energy Star and come in at about 430 kWh per year . The chest freezer , most efficient model generally ( cold air sink ) us about 226 kWh per year and hold those waffle for a quick breakfast one day . But what I want to remember be that the leftover and ice cream be here because I choose to use the electricity . Nice choice to be able to make ! I love hot water ! When I think about it , hot water be the best thing of my lifestyle , really ! The stupid hot water heater sits there pollute the world all day , even if we only use hot water in the morning and in the evening . How dumb be that ? Grinding away burn money and ruin the planet for my convenience seem a little silly and very selfish . Thank goodness we can use thermal solar hot water heater in many place and ours be one of those . And we can install on demand water heater for the intermittent extra boost in temperature we like . It be good for be to remember that what be hot in winter and cool in summer be use extra energy . Then I get to decide if it be worth it , to me and my planet . Drying dish be a good time for me to go over the day 's event with family , or in my mind . Hanging out clothes , and run to bring them in if it ever rain again in Colorado 's east side , get me in touch with the world around me . Having an indoor line in a dry region actually add some need moisture to the indoor air . I have hear that when one write about a problem it be de rigueur to finish with a plan . So here be my plan : think . Followed by measuring energy use and act consciously . Remember the big cost of use energy thoughtlessly . I decide to put on a sweater or two , or to go sleeveless , buff arm or not ! I choose to turn off the light or the drying cycle on the dishwasher . This may not save the world , or even balance my budget , but I hope it will help . I want to live my life engage and aware of what be around me . That be my best plan for saving energy , dollar , and the climate . By Wyncia *There be a great little device call Kill-a-Watt Energy Usage Monitor available at Amazon.com for about $ 20 . Just plug it in and then plug the appliance into it . It tell you all sort of good information . 0 0 Read 3 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : `` Time Of Use '' Electricity Plan We be on a `` Time-of-Use '' plan for the electricity we use in our home . Our provider be Wisconsin Public Service . From 8 p.m. to 9 a.m. and 24 hours/day on Saturdays , Sundays , and holiday , we be charge $ .0549/KWH . During peak time , 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. , the rate be $ .2073/KWH . It can amount to a nice saving if one learns to use her electric stove , dishwasher , dehumidifier , clothes dryer , and other appliance during those off-peak hour . It be a habit that we find quite easy to adapt to . Contact your utility company to see if they offer this plan . By Anne from Green Bay , WI 0 0 PostFeedback Follow Email Print Article : Electrical Savings 102 Think you 've master electrical saving ? Take another look around your home and find even more place to pull the plug and keep the meter from spin . Wash It Well Knowing that hot water demand large amount of energy , try to use it less in the home . When do laundry , use the cold/cold cycle rather than a warm/cold cycle . This will lessen the demand for hot water and save energy all while wash clothes to the same degree . Try soaking soil clothes before wash for the same effect a hot water , and save the hot water cycle for extremely soil clothes . While dry clothes there be also way to save electric . The most obvious be to hang the clothes to dry rather than use the dryer . If this option do n't work , try a compromise . Remove clothing from the dryer a few minute before the cycle be complete and hang the clothes immediately . This save a few minute from the drying cycle , save electric , and it allow the clothes to dry practically wrinkle free . In practicality , many people prefer to use a clothes dryer for all of their laundry load rather than hang clothing to dry . Save electric while use the dryer by running it continuously . As soon a one load be dry , replace it with a wet load and start the dryer . This eliminate the cool down/warm up time that elapses between load and thus use less electric . Fix It A leaky faucet do n't seem to warrant an expensive plumber ; at least that 's what most people believe . However , one leak hot water faucet can add up . At the rate of one drop per second , a leaky faucet can waste 165 gallon of water a month . Imagine how much electric be use to heat 165 gallon . The water waste add up to the amount of eleven average shower . While you 're do handy work around the house , check the furnace and have it clean a well . Vacuum baseboard heater , thermostat , and other element of heating device . Built up dust and dirt prohibit them from work properly and allow them to eat up more electric . This include the coil on the back of the refrigerator and water cooler . Clothes dryer which have clog lint filter can use almost 30 % more energy to dry a load of clothing than those with clean filter . Keep a Lid On It When cook , try to trap energy whenever possible . Use the oven window and light to peek at dinner rather than open the oven and allow hot air ( energy ) to escape . Along those line , when cook with pot , cover the pot when possible . Water will boil fast and less energy will be waste when heat be trap in the pot . Align the pot to the properly size burner a well . This eliminate heat from escape needlessly around the side of the pot ; instead focus all of the energy on the item to be heat . To see Kelly 's article , `` Electric Savings 101 , click here By Kelly Ann Butterbaugh 0 0 Read 4 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Electricity Savings 101 There be more than a few way to keep the electric meter from spin at an alarm rate . Some require a little electrical inventory , such a turn off unused appliance or switch to Energy Star appliance . However , others take a bit more creativity and plan . Go Solar It require a little initial investment , but it 's all saving from there . Outdoor lighting may provide safety for a home , but it also require electricity . Opt for solar light instead . Reasonably price set of solar light can be purchase and stuck in the ground for ample night light without any further expense at all . For those who try solar light year ago , they have improve and now stay lit for most of the evening , even charge on cloudy day . Alternate the Air For those who have window air conditioner , the electrical meter be spin a three or even four air conditioner work to cool a home . Rather than run all air conditioner throughout the day , opt for a rotation . For example , let the one in the dining room work to cool the neighboring room for part of the day , allow ceiling fan or floor fan to circulate the cool air . Then , turn on the air conditioner in the living room and let the one in the dining room rest . Simultaneously , accept the house temperature at 78 degree rather than 73 or even 75 degree . You 'll see strong saving and little difference in the air quality . Another option be to evaluate the need for bedroom air conditioner to run during the day . Many of u do n't use our bedroom during the peak heat hour , and we could save some by turning the air conditioner off during the day and closing the bedroom door . Simply turn the air on an hour before bedtime ; the time of day provide cooler air , allow for more efficient cooling . Remember , if an air conditioner be run , it 's use electric . Turn It Down Electric water heater ( and gas for that matter ) use a great deal of energy . Try to save energy by setting the temperature on your water heater a bit low - ideally at 120 degree F. Not only will it save electric , but it will prevent scald accident a well . When you 're plan to be away on vacation , turn the water heater off or adjust the setting so that energy be n't be waste heating water no one be go to use . Keep Cooking ! Cooking can have serious effect on the temperature of the home , and by alternating the cooking method you can save more energy than you think . In the summer , the use of the oven or stovetop add excess heat to room that air conditioner may be work to cool down . Opt for a cooler method of cook such a the microwave , a crock pot , or a toaster oven . All emit less heat into the air , and they use less electric to cook food than the average electric oven or range . To see Kelly 's article , `` Electric Savings 102 , click here By Kelly Ann Butterbaugh 0 0 Read 5 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Frugal Tips For Electric Bill Savings I just want to share my energy saving tip ! Our electric bill kwh hour jump almost double so I have to come up with something to help . It all sort of play out slowly . Starting in January I decide consciously to stop leaving the light on so much in the daytime ( disable homemaker ) , unless I be read and that be big step one . I want to darken my bedroom one day and use an aluminum sunshade ( for car windows ) to darken my bedroom window . My husband work 2 week night , then 2 week day , his schedule flop back and forth . Makes it crazy around here . That work so well , I go out and purchase ( have the first one already ) 4 more , so spend about $ 8 buck for the whole trailer.I cut them to fit about the top half of all the window in the place tap them on with wide clear tape . ( I know I have see people use aluminum foil for year , with my kitty that would n't last 30 minute ! ) It be sort of like you have put up awning on your house , without the expense ! I allow for my critter need to look out the window in various window spot , so it be not a dungeon by any mean . Boy , do this cut down on the heat tremendously . Also by necessity ( live by 2 major highway stone throw away and noisy ) , we run fan 24 hour a day . One of the fan have quit in the living room , go along with a second fan plus the ceiling fan ! Anyway , I go to Walmart and end up buy an industrial type fan 20 inch high velocity fan ( on high I call it our 747 fan , lol ) . Believe me it have it 's benefit besides help on the electric bill bunch , block out the highway noise , and the teenager ' too loud TV and/or music ! It 's a godsend . ) Worth every penny of $ 35 plus tax . I also get one for the bedroom since I be a light sleeper . These be something we have to have no matter what . Anyway , when I start recently compare electric bill to last year , say July 's bill be almost $ 60 less , at about 22 % saving . It 's be every bit a hot , and I be very extremely hot natured . The a/c have be on most of the time since February ! We hardly every touch the thermostat leave it on 75-76 degree continuously ! I have n't realize how major a life adjustment we have make until comparing bill . Very importantly , by conscious choice , we only use the oven maybe 4 time a week , a compare to every day before . Yes , I still cook , but mostly do skillet or stovetop meal , or even the crockpot . I find a new skillet cookie recipe that be awesome , and we like to eat rice krispie bar a lot , lol . And of course ice cream ! Anyway , see a how energy cost have continue to skyrocket I feel like I have do wonder for u and it do n't hurt u one bitty bit ! For u this do n't work , but some electric company participate in off peak hour for electric usage . I check with our company and it basically be only for people who be keep property , but not live there . They tell me yeah you can sign up , but if you use ANYTHING at all electric , you start pay 10 cent a kwh . That mean not even an alarm clock , freezer , a/c or nothing . I think how absurd . The only people it would benefit be people not live there at all ! I figure they be n't all like that because I have read of people do their laundry ( my intent ) during the PM hour . You might check it out to see if it would work in your case . Anyway , all this stuff work for u a a family and might work for yours ' a well . Good luck ! By Lori from Marion , AR 0 0 Read 18 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Tip : Ways To Save On The Electric Bill I be absolutely shock at my electric bill this month , so I sit down and make a list of thing I will do to see if I can get it down , this list be now post on the refrigerator , so I can see it every day . Maybe we can all save by doing these thing . Turn off light we be not use : this be a no-brainer and certainly one of the easy measure of all . It be the key step to achieving a conservation mind-set . Just flip a switch stop the waste of power . Cut back on the light we do use : I 'm the bad when it come to turn on all of the light in the room . We will be opt for lamp and task light instead of general room light whenever possible . Adjust the thermostat : an air conditioner us a tremendous amount of electricity when it run , a do electric heat . During the hot month , we be commit to setting it at 78 degree F and at 68 degree F during the winter and leave it there . As a rule of thumb , every degree you low a thermostat 's set temperature will save 3 percent of energy cost over a 24-hour period . Maintain the refrigerator and freezer : because these appliance be the big energy user in our home , we need to make sure they be run at maximum efficiency . I check , and sure enough , both be set to the high set , which make them run nearly all the time . I set them back to reasonable level , and I will be defrost our standalone freezer this weekend . It be way past due , and that , too , make it use more power . Use the oven and stovetop less : there be many time that the microwave , slow cooker and toaster oven will work just a well for our meal preparation a the standard oven and stovetop . The small appliance use a great deal less energy . Turn computer off : it use to be that computer would wear out prematurely if they be turn on and off routinely . But technology have improve to the point at which it make no difference in the computer 's longevity . So the best advice be to turn it off when it 's not in use to save energy . Run only full load : I have fall into the habit of run less than full load in the washing machine and the dishwasher . But no more ! I 'm sure by be careful to wait for a full load , we 'll be run those appliance half as often in the come month . By Bobbie G from Rockwall , TX 0 0 Read 5 Feedbacks Follow Email Print Give a `` thumb up '' to the solution that work the best ! Do you have a good solution ? Click here to share it ! Questions Ask a Question Here be question relate to Saving Money on Your Electric Bill . Question : Energy Usage of a Dryer Not in Use Does a laundry dryer that be turn off use a lot of energy with a 220 plug ? By Tonya from CO Ad Best Answer By weinerdog41 [ 33 ] 03/02/2014 A dryer that 's not run do n't use any energy . The thing that use energy be thing with a continual light like electric clock , anything with a timer . etc . Read 2 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Can Breaker Tripping Make Electric Bill Go Up ? If my breaker keep trip ; would that make my electrical bill go up , since I have to turn it off , then turn it back on ? Would n't that take up a lot more power ? I 'm try to figure out why my bill be 3 time high than the other month . The only thing I can think of be when my breaker keep trip . By Ti Ad Best Answer By Louise B . [ 5 ] 02/21/2014 No , breaker trip would not make your power bill go up . Whatever be cause your breaker to trip repeatedly might be the issue . Have you figure out WHY the breaker continually trip ? ( They do wear out a well , and have to be replace , if they continually trip . However that would not make your power bill go up . ) Read 1 Answer Follow Email Print Question : Saving Money on Energy How can we save $ $ on our energy bill when my utility company increase our rate because we be use less energy ? By Ted AnswerThisQuestion Follow Email Print Question : Saving on Electric Bill My electric bill be over 220 dollar for one month in a small 2 bed/1 bath apt in Ohio . My apartment have old appliance , stave , refrigerator , hot water heater , and AC unit from 1999 . Whenever I say anything to the landlord , she get mad ! The seal around the refrigerator and oven be old , moldy , and do n't fit well enough to seal properly . Now my utility bill be so high , but I ca n't afford to move ! By Marie H . Report Most Recent Answer By Sandi/Poor But Proud [ 416 ] 08/07/2013 First off , the responsibility to fix the apt . be not yours . Here be a link to just one of the Ohio Landlord Tenant Laws but you can google more . http : //codes.ohio.gov/orc/5321 You can also go to the utility company and often they will do an energy audit , where they go in and make a list of thing that be cause the problem . Most county also have energy assistance , so you can often look into that . In Oregon , you have to be one day overdue and low income . This be the time of the year when you probably would n't have to wait long for an appt . In many case , you can withhold your rent and it 's legal , esp ' when you present them with the bill , the energy report and the law state they have to fix thing and ca n't retaliate against you . Do n't fix , fight . Good luck ! Read 2 Answers Follow Email Print Question : How Can You Save Money on Your Electric Bill ? I start recently save money on my electric bill , and want to hear if anyone else have idea , feedback , etc . I switch my energy provider to North American Power ( www.napower.com/kdegross ) . I be literally save about $ 20 a month in my small apartment . I do n't even see a difference on my electric bill , and CLandP still handle any problem . Has anyone else have this success ? Any other idea ? Gas be so high in CT , I figure that if I can save on my electric , I be ahead of the game ! By Jenn from CT Report Most Recent Answer By Jesus Freak 06/02/2011 A friend save money and I 've read of other who turn off their water heater or have their water heater on a light timer . I 've start do it this month and find that mine be on a hardwired light switch . ( ; I live in Florida where , in the summer , the water be pretty warm right out of the tap because of the water tower storage and all day/night heat . With this say , I 've find that I have boil hot water shower ( that 's what we like round here ! ) , bath and a dishwasher load w/ have it on for only about 30 minute a day . The rest of the day , we have hot water from the reservoir for washing hand , small amount for hand wash dish , and other sundry task . Read 7 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Saving Money on Electricity Tip for save money on electricity . Post your idea . Report Most Recent Answer By UtilityBills2High 12/24/2009 Addressing the sentence of turn off the hot water heater a night do not save on electricity cost . The statement be wrong ; any amount of time the hot water heater be turn OFF by the breaker or other mean help reduce or low the electric bill ( law of physic ) . If the bill still seem to go up , there be many other reason or cause that contribute to the condition ( s ) . Energy audit be good , but may not uncover every source of electricity drain possible . For example , in a trailer park with outside pole light , one or more pole light might be connect to a trailer and be not even light at night , maybe the bulb be blown-out , but a night that pole light will still be fee electricity to the ballast which will turn that electricity into heat , without a work bulb . Most energy audit be perform during the day time , so they may not even pick up on this situation . Insulating the hot and cold water pipe throughout the house be number one priority , and with the high R-value pipe insulation available , e.g . R-4.9 rat for negative 70 degree F. , that 70 degree below 0 F. Check out www.UtilityBills2High.com for more info . Read 4 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Saving Money on Your Power Bill How do I low my power bill ? Kent from Dalton , Ga . Report Most Recent Answer By April [ 182 ] 11/04/2008 Insulate switch plat and outlet that be locate on outside wall or above an unheated basement . A package of foam outlet insulation sheet cost less than $ 4 and do several outlet . Read 5 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Saving Electricity in the Winter Q : I would like a information on what I can do to save money on electricity during the winter . I live in a condo and face the south east . I get lot of sun , therefore heat during the day . I ask a contractor about wrap my water , heater he say that my heater be so new it be already insulate enough . Does it really save to turn off the water heater ? Wo n't it just have that much more work to do when i turn it back on ? Thank you , Sandy A : Sandy , There be a lot of easy way to save on electricity during the winter . Here be just a few related to hot water and hot water heater : Even if your hot water heater be new , insulate your water heater and pipe keep heat from escape and the project will easily pay for itself in less than a year . Do n't shut off your hot water heater . Turn down the temperature dial instead . You 'll be surprise how low you can set the dial and still have plenty of hot water for your need ( try 115 to 125 ) . Check `` time of day rate '' if your hot water heater be electric . This involve have your water heater come on only during `` off-peak '' time , but at a low rate . Check with your utility company to see if they offer this plan . Turn your water heater down to the low set if you will be go for a couple of day . Use foam wrap to insulate hot water pipe throughout your house . Keep it three inch away from heater draft hood and exhaust vent . Install low flow aerator on faucet and install water save showerhead . Fix leaky faucet . Take shower instead of baths-they use less water . Report Most Recent Answer By SnowMan ( Guest Post ) 11/17/2005 Hello . This be a question relate to saving on home heating bill . I live in a single family home with a basement and reside in Maryland . My new wife seem to believe that turn off our gas heating thermostat during the day while we be at work save money . We 'd come back and turn on the heat again but this take time to reheat the whole home . And a the temp 's get colder , be this a good idea to save money ? Before I get marry I have never turn off the heat during the winter day fear this would freeze my pipe . Who be correct in this case ? Thanks ! Editor 's Note : We post this a a new request : http : //www.thriftyfun.com/tf24650375.tip.html Read 3 Answers Follow Email Print Question : Save Money on Your Electric Bill Here be some idea to help you save money on your electric bill . Post your idea below ! Report Most Recent Answer By marion davidson [ 22 ] 07/08/2009 Keeping your freezer full to capacity be not always feasible but you can offset this by storing empty , but lidded , plastic container in it . I do all of the thing suggest here but I always feel my electric bill be way too high . I get far more benefit from my gas , for which I pay just a little more eg gas central heating and gas hob . By the way , I do n't have an electric drier ! Read 19 Answers Follow Email Print Feedback Forum Share Feedback Feedback about this article be post here . Want to contribute ? Click above to post feedback . Archives Thrifty Fun have be around so long that many of our page have be reset several time . Archives be old version of the page and the feedback that be provide then . Archive : 10 Tips for Saving Money on Your Power Bill As temperature rise across the country , power bill rise across the country . By following some easy energy-saving tip , you can save money on your power bill to spend on summer fun . 1 . Clean or change your air conditioner filter monthly . Dirty filter can increase operating cost for your air-conditioning unit by as much a 20 percent . 2 . Set your thermostat at the high comfortable setting . Turn the thermostat up high when you be more sedentary . 3 . Use a ceiling or portable fan to supplement your cooling system . One fan can make you feel 3 to 4 degree cool and cost only half a cent per hour to operate . 4 . Close your blind , drape and shade during the hot part of the day to keep the sun from heating your home . 5 . Take advantage of cool morning and evening ; turn your air conditioner off , open your window and let the outside air cool your house . Do n't forget to close the window a the temperature get warm . 6 . Avoid generating large amount of heat with cook appliance , which work against your cooling system by adding extra heat to your house . Use a microwave oven or counter top appliance instead of your stove top or oven . Better yet , cook outside on a grill . 7 . Hang your laundry outside to dry instead of use your gas or electric dryer . This save you money two way ; you eliminate the cost of power need to operate the dryer and reduce the heat you generate inside your home . 8 . Use fluorescent light bulb instead of incandescent bulb in your home . Fluorescent use significantly less energy and produce much less heat . 9 . Take advantage of the summer sun and use solar lighting in place of traditional electric lighting in your landscape . 10 . Use smart landscape to shade your house from the sun 's ray . Plant tree on the east and west side of your home and plant shrubbery close to the foundation . Evaluate power usage around your home . There be change you can make . You just have to be willing to make a small effort . Start now and reduce the amount of money you give to the power company every month ! Sherri Allen be the editor of an online publication feature topic such a family , food , home , garden and money . For great tip , resource , article , recipe , review and color page , visit http : //www.SherriAllen.com/ Archive : Saving Money on Electricity Read More ... Consumer Advice Shopping Home & Garden August 23 , 2011 Free Newsletters Email : Related Guides Energy Saving Tips Saving Money on Your Sewer Bill Insulating Your Home Saving Money on Your Internet Bill Saving Money on Travel Saving Money on Horse Boarding Related Posts Disputing an Electric Bill Ideas to Get Out of Debt Saving Money on an Apartment Getting Started Saving Money How Can You Save Money on Your Electric Bill ? Snowball Payments to Get Out of Debt Consumer Advice Shopping Home & Garden August 23 , 2011 Related Guides Energy Saving Tips Saving Money on Your Sewer Bill Insulating Your Home Saving Money on Your Internet Bill Saving Money on Travel Saving Money on Horse Boarding Related Posts Disputing an Electric Bill Ideas to Get Out of Debt Saving Money on an Apartment Getting Started Saving Money How Can You Save Money on Your Electric Bill ? Snowball Payments to Get Out of Debt 1997-2015 by Cumuli , Inc. All Rights Reserved . Published by ThriftyFun . Page generate on January 29 , 2015 at 3:15:17 AM on 10.0.1.228 in 4 second . Use of this web site constitute acceptance of ThriftyFun's Disclaimer and 