How Obamas new carbon rule could raise your electric bill | Daily Ticker - Yahoo Finance Home Mail Search News Sports Finance Weather Games Answers Screen Flickr Mobile More Celebrity Movies Music TV Groups Health Style Beauty Food Parenting Makers Tech Shopping Travel Autos Homes Install the new Firefox Skip to Navigation Skip to Main content Skip to Right rail Sign In Mail Help Account Info Help Suggestions Follow Yahoo Finance on Facebook on Twitter on Tumblr Recent % | $ Quotes you view appear here for quick access . Tip : Use comma ( , ) to separate multiple quote . Learn more ... Finance Home My Portfolio My Quotes News Market Data Yahoo Originals Business & Finance Personal Finance CNBC Contributors Recommended Games More game Compare Brokers Daily Ticker How Obamas new carbon rule could raise your electric bill By Rick Newman June 3 , 2014 3:56 PM Daily Ticker Content preference Done . View photo FILE - In this Saturday , Jan. 10 , 2009 , file photo , a flock of geese fly past a smokestack at the Jeffery Energy Center coal power plant near Emmitt , Kan. Economic force , pollution concern and competition from clean fuel be slowly nudge nation around the globe away from coal . ( AP Photo/Charlie Riedel , File ) Give him credit for try . With Congress lock in a state of disputatious paralysis , President Obama have once again resort to executive action to address a national problem . New rule propose by the Environmental Protection Agency will significantly reduce carbon emission , mark a first step toward seriously address climate change by the world lead economy . The new rule will remake the U.S. power sector , however , which mean there will be winner and loser . Consumers could end up in both category . An EPA analysis of the complex regulation claim the typical consumer 's electricity bill will fall by 8 % , on average , by 2030 . Yet the same analysis predicts the cost of produce electricity will rise . The saving to consumer , supposedly , will come from great efficiency and new conservation method that will lead to low energy usage overall , thereby lowering their out-of-pocket spending on electricity . That could happen , but the EPA projection rely on lot of variable and depend to a large degree on cheap and abundant natural gas , which could become more costly than expect if demand pick up and U.S. export rise . If this be go to result in a much greater pace of coal plant retirement than weve already see , then certainly there will be upward pressure on gas price , say Paul Flemming of research firm ESAI Power . And Obamas disprove claim about his health-reform plan if you like your healthcare plan , you can keep it be a fresh reminder that the promise of government official dont always pan out . The EPA law be meant to reduce the emission of harmful greenhouse gas associate with health problem such a respiratory and cardiovascular condition , along with rise global temperature . To do that , the rule will require power plant to cut carbon emission by 30 % , compare with 2005 level . The rule , which wont go into effect for at least a year and could change a interest group lobby for modification , would give state considerable leeway in term of how they meet the target a decentralize approach that have drawn praise from some energy analyst . A misleading claim ? But the idea that consumer wont feel any pain be probably mislead . For starter , the rule will put a heavy burden on state that rely most heavily on coal for electricity , include West Virginia , Kentucky , Indiana , Missouri , Wyoming and Utah . Coal produce the most carbon when burn , so state heavily dependent on coal will either have to build expensive new power plant rely on other fuel , or find other way to low emission . To balance the burden , the rule set low reduction target for coal-dependent state , but compliance will still be costly . Those cost will inevitably be pass on to consumer , whether through tax or fee , high electricity rate or some other mechanism . Other state have already wean themselves off coal or never depend on it much in the first place , include most New England and West Coast state , Nevada , Idaho , Mississippi , Alaska and Hawaii . States that have already do that work , or be bless with hydropower , be not go to experience a big increase in electricity price , say Adele Morris of the Brookings Institution . Although adjustment in those state will be relatively minor , some of them already have high electricity cost , on account of expensive upgrade already make . In the rest of the state , the direction of electricity rate will depend to a large extent on market force and consumer behavior . President Obama be a big fan of renewable energy source such a wind and solar power , but those technology be still expensive relative to their output , and arent economically viable in all place . ( Wind power doesnt work very well in hilly locales such a Vermont , or crowd place include Los Angeles , and solar power require more sunlight than some area get . ) In many state , the most cost-effective alternative to coal will be natural gas , which America now produce in abundance , thanks to new hydraulic fracturing drill technology . But a surge in demand for anything always push up price , unless supply rise by more . So the question be whether U.S. gas production now the large in the world , after Russia will keep pace with rise demand , especially a export of natural gas take off . The U.S. government must approve some gas export , but plan be already underway to build several costly export terminal , reflect a long-term commitment to shipping gas overseas . A surprise price shock Some analyst think there so much gas in the U.S. that price will stay flat for year . But a surprise energy supply shock occur this past winter when the cost of propane skyrocket , and gas price rise by more than expect as frigid temperature boost demand and supply fell short . Some business group would like to see a limit on gas export to assure supply remain abundant here at home , and price low . In it 376-page analysis of the new rule impact , the EPA explain how conservation effort could help low cost for consumer . The best way to cut down on carbon emission be to simply burn less carbon , which will give state new incentive to conserve . There could be tax rebate or other inducement for household to install more-efficient lighting and appliance or cut back in other way . If the money save through cutback exceeds price increase , consumer will be good off , on balance . Even if the new carbon limit do raise price for consumer , they might still represent prudent policy . Economists generally accept the idea that there be important social cost that cant be measure a easily a a line on a utility bill , such a lost productivity or quality of life degradation due to illness . So less carbon in the air could benefit million . Voters have a right to know the cost of progress , however , and theyve rightfully learn to doubt what government official tell them . Rick Newmans late book be Rebounders : How Winners Pivot From Setback To Success . Follow him on Twitter : @ rickjnewman . Personal Finance - Career & Education Utility Industry President Obama EPA Click to view comment View Comments ( 1302 ) Share this What to read next Play The Mall be not dead yet but `` it 's a good time to get out , '' Davidowitz Gold threaten to break down Sponsored Talking Numbers Play Do n't stress the stress test Play Small cap may be ready to outshine large cap Play Big bank get blast by Yellen & Buffett Why China admit their economy be slow matter Sponsored Kenny 's Commentary It 's good tostruggle at a goodschool than to ace community college 8 stock market bubble that be n't really bubble at all Sidekick More Market News 02:15 Play Selma Stirs , 50 Years After Bloody Sunday 02:15 All 31 U.S. bank pass stress test Sponsored Reuters Videos 02:17 Play U.S. stock break two-day lose street 02:17 02:13 Play Details Revealed of the Color Changing Dress 02:13 01:16 Play Fast Money Final Trade : EBAY , ANDE , KORS & BX 01:16 BNSF train carry crude derails in Illinois Sponsored CNBC Videos 01:21 Play Orexigen fall after hour 01:21 01:30 Play Stock Pops & Drops : DNKN , WTW , MBLY & CZR 01:30 Sidekick FP Today What happens if I do n't pay my student loan ? Snuggie seller settle customer-deception suit Sponsored Resorts offer a different kind of family getaway Sidekick top story U.S. bank clear capital hurdle in Fed stress test Etsy IPO will show if do-gooder can make money Sponsored CNBC Play U.S. stock close high ahead of key job report Play The job recovery be weak than it seem A strong dollar be hurt your jobprospects Apple Watch could be $ 26 billion business by 2018 Sponsored MarketWatch One simple thing company could do to save worker a fortune in tax Play Cuban : Tech bubble worse now than 15 year ago Data Disclaimer Help / Suggestions Privacy About Our Ads Terms how obamas new carbon rule could raise your electric bill | daily ticker - yahoo finance home mail search news sport finance weather game answer screen flickr mobile more celebrity movie music tv group health style beauty food parent maker tech shop travel auto home install the new firefox skip to navigation skip to main content skip to right rail sign in mail help account info help suggestion follow yahoo finance on facebook on twitter on tumblr recent % | $ quote you view appear here for quick access . tip : use comma ( , ) to separate multiple quote . learn more ... finance home my portfolio my quote news market data yahoo original business & finance personal finance cnbc contributor recommended game more game compare broker daily ticker how obamas new carbon rule could raise your electric bill by rick newman june 3 , 2014 3:56 pm daily ticker content preference done . view photo file - in this saturday , jan. 10 , 2009 , file photo , a flock of geese fly past a smokestack at the jeffery energy center coal power plant near emmitt , kan. economic force , pollution concern and competition from clean fuel be slowly nudge nation around the globe away from coal . ( ap photo/charlie riedel , file ) give him credit for try . with congress lock in a state of disputatious paralysis , president obama have once again resort to executive action to address a national problem . new rule propose by the environmental protection agency will significantly reduce carbon emission , mark a first step toward seriously address climate change by the world lead economy . the new rule will remake the u.s. power sector , however , which mean there will be winner and loser . consumer could end up in both category . an epa analysis of the complex regulation claim the typical consumer 's electricity bill will fall by 8 % , on average , by 2030 . yet the same analysis predicts the cost of produce electricity will rise . the saving to consumer , supposedly , will come from great efficiency and new conservation method that will lead to low energy usage overall , thereby lowering their out-of-pocket spending on electricity . that could happen , but the epa projection rely on lot of variable and depend to a large degree on cheap and abundant natural gas , which could become more costly than expect if demand pick up and u.s. export rise . if this be go to result in a much greater pace of coal plant retirement than weve already see , then certainly there will be upward pressure on gas price , say paul flemming of research firm esai power . and obamas disprove claim about his health-reform plan if you like your healthcare plan , you can keep it be a fresh reminder that the promise of government official dont always pan out . the epa law be meant to reduce the emission of harmful greenhouse gas associate with health problem such a respiratory and cardiovascular condition , along with rise global temperature . to do that , the rule will require power plant to cut carbon emission by 30 % , compare with 2005 level . the rule , which wont go into effect for at least a year and could change a interest group lobby for modification , would give state considerable leeway in term of how they meet the target a decentralize approach that have drawn praise from some energy analyst . a misleading claim ? but the idea that consumer wont feel any pain be probably mislead . for starter , the rule will put a heavy burden on state that rely most heavily on coal for electricity , include west virginia , kentucky , indiana , missouri , wyoming and utah . coal produce the most carbon when burn , so state heavily dependent on coal will either have to build expensive new power plant rely on other fuel , or find other way to low emission . to balance the burden , the rule set low reduction target for coal-dependent state , but compliance will still be costly . those cost will inevitably be pass on to consumer , whether through tax or fee , high electricity rate or some other mechanism . other state have already wean themselves off coal or never depend on it much in the first place , include most new england and west coast state , nevada , idaho , mississippi , alaska and hawaii . state that have already do that work , or be bless with hydropower , be not go to experience a big increase in electricity price , say adele morris of the brookings institution . although adjustment in those state will be relatively minor , some of them already have high electricity cost , on account of expensive upgrade already make . in the rest of the state , the direction of electricity rate will depend to a large extent on market force and consumer behavior . president obama be a big fan of renewable energy source such a wind and solar power , but those technology be still expensive relative to their output , and arent economically viable in all place . ( wind power doesnt work very well in hilly locales such a vermont , or crowd place include los angeles , and solar power require more sunlight than some area get . ) in many state , the most cost-effective alternative to coal will be natural gas , which america now produce in abundance , thanks to new hydraulic fracturing drill technology . but a surge in demand for anything always push up price , unless supply rise by more . so the question be whether u.s. gas production now the large in the world , after russia will keep pace with rise demand , especially a export of natural gas take off . the u.s. government must approve some gas export , but plan be already underway to build several costly export terminal , reflect a long-term commitment to shipping gas overseas . a surprise price shock some analyst think there so much gas in the u.s. that price will stay flat for year . but a surprise energy supply shock occur this past winter when the cost of propane skyrocket , and gas price rise by more than expect as frigid temperature boost demand and supply fell short . some business group would like to see a limit on gas export to assure supply remain abundant here at home , and price low . in it 376-page analysis of the new rule impact , the epa explain how conservation effort could help low cost for consumer . the best way to cut down on carbon emission be to simply burn less carbon , which will give state new incentive to conserve . there could be tax rebate or other inducement for household to install more-efficient lighting and appliance or cut back in other way . if the money save through cutback exceeds price increase , consumer will be good off , on balance . even if the new carbon limit do raise price for consumer , they might still represent prudent policy . economist generally accept the idea that there be important social cost that cant be measure a easily a a line on a utility bill , such a lost productivity or quality of life degradation due to illness . so less carbon in the air could benefit million . voter have a right to know the cost of progress , however , and theyve rightfully learn to doubt what government official tell them . rick newman late book be rebounders : how winner pivot from setback to success . follow him on twitter : @ rickjnewman . personal finance - career & education utility industry president obama epa click to view comment view comment ( 1302 ) share this what to read next play the mall be not dead yet but `` it 's a good time to get out , '' davidowitz gold threaten to break down sponsored talk number play do n't stress the stress test play small cap may be ready to outshine large cap play big bank get blast by yellen & buffett why china admit their economy be slow matter sponsored kenny 's commentary it 's good tostruggle at a goodschool than to ace community college 8 stock market bubble that be n't really bubble at all sidekick more market news 02:15 play selma stir , 50 year after bloody sunday 02:15 all 31 u.s. bank pass stress test sponsored reuters video 02:17 play u.s. stock break two-day lose street 02:17 02:13 play detail reveal of the color changing dress 02:13 01:16 play fast money final trade : ebay , ande , kor & bx 01:16 bnsf train carry crude derails in illinois sponsored cnbc video 01:21 play orexigen fall after hour 01:21 01:30 play stock pop & drop : dnkn , wtw , mbly & czr 01:30 sidekick fp today what happens if i do n't pay my student loan ? snuggie seller settle customer-deception suit sponsored resort offer a different kind of family getaway sidekick top story u.s. bank clear capital hurdle in fed stress test etsy ipo will show if do-gooder can make money sponsored cnbc play u.s. stock close high ahead of key job report play the job recovery be weak than it seem a strong dollar be hurt your jobprospects apple watch could be $ 26 billion business by 2018 sponsored marketwatch one simple thing company could do to save worker a fortune in tax play cuban : tech bubble worse now than 15 year ago data disclaimer help / suggestion privacy about our ad term 