How Many BTUs Does a Furnace Need for a House ? | Home Guides | SF Gate SF Gate News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns More Less Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save Sections Skip to main content . Home Guides by Demand Media Home Guides Menu Buying Real Estate Construction & Remodeling Design Foreclosures Government Housing Assistance Home Decoration & Design Indoors Insurance & Inspections More Landlords & Tenants Mortgage & Loan Payments Mortgage & Loan Rates Mortgages Outdoors Real Estate Advice Real Estate Rentals & Leases Real Estate Terms & Definitions Real Estate Values & Taxes Refinancing Repair Selling Real Estate Storage Types of Mortgages & Loans Home Guides Real Estate Values & Taxes Other Real Estate Values & Taxes How Many BTUs Does a Furnace Need for a House ? How Many BTUs Does a Furnace Need for a House ? by Tony Guerra New high-efficiency furnace typically cost $ 5,000 to $ 8,000 , include installation . A BTU be a British Thermal Unit , or a measure of thermal or heat energy . BTUs be use to determine thermal energy output in a variety of device , include furnace . A typical home furnace produce thousand of BTUs and instal one that meet your home 's heating need be vital . If your home 's furnace be too large , it will turn on and off too often and lose efficiency and , if it 's too small , it will run too often and wo n't adequately heat your home . BTUs per Square Foot Heating and air condition contractor use various load calculation to determine furnace size for home and these calculation be often complex . But there be also `` rule-of-thumb '' estimation you can use to pick a furnace size for your home . For cooler climate , a very broad estimate of furnace size be to select one that generate 40 to 45 BTUs per square foot . At 40 to 45 BTUs per square foot , you 'd need a 100,000 to 112,500 BTU furnace to heat your 2,500-square-foot home . Heating Degree-Day Calculation A heating degree-day calculation , use the month of July a a factor , be a more precise way of estimate furnace size . Natural gas for a furnace be price by the therm , or per 100,000 BTUs . Therms be list on your home 's gas bill in annual and monthly usage rate . The heating degree-day calculation for a furnace be 50 x heating therm x furnace efficiency = load in BTUs/hour . Your furnace must produce a certain load , measure in BTUs per hour , to heat your home . Calculating Your Furnace Size Suppose your home us 1,500 therm of natural gas annually , your July usage rate be 25 therm and your furnace be 82 percent efficient . For a heating degree-day calculation , subtract 12 x 25 , or your July usage rate , from your annual therm usage rate of 1,500 , or 1,500 - 300 = 1,200 , or your home 's therm heating load . Your home 's heating degree-day calculation formula would be 50 x 1200 x .82 , or 49,200 . Using heating degree-day calculation , a 50,000 BTU furnace can adequately heat your home . Furnace Heating Efficiency New furnace come with a yellow energy guide attach that provides their energy efficiency rating . Different furnace also deliver different efficiency level . For example , if your furnace be 82 percent efficient , it 's deliver 82 percent of it fuel into your house a heat . The great your furnace 's efficiency , the low it fuel usage rate be , mean it will be less costly to operate . More efficient furnace also tend to cost more , at least up front , but they 're typically less costly over the long term . References ( 4 ) Alpine Home Air Products : Measuring Heating Capacity Michaels Energy : Furnaces : Sizing by the Seat of Your Pants Tulsa Gas Technologies , Inc. : How Natural Gas be Measured HouseLogic : Should the Energy Department Tell You What Kind of Furnace to Buy ? Resources ( 1 ) Michigan State University Extension : Energy Tips - Choosing the Right Furnace for Your Home About the Author Tony Guerra serve more than 20 year in the U.S. Navy . He also spend seven year a an airline operation manager . Guerra be a former realtor , real-estate salesperson , associate broker and real-estate education instructor . He hold a master 's degree in management and a bachelor 's degree in interdisciplinary study . Photo Credits Jupiterimages/Stockbyte/Getty Images Suggest a Correction Have Feedback ? Thank you for provide feedback to our Editorial staff on this article . Please fill in the following information so we can alert the Home Guides editorial team about a factual or typographical error in this story . All Fields be require . Name E-mail Feedback Type What kind of error ? Factual or Typographical Digital Rights and Permissions Other Comments or Corrections 2000 Character Limit Captcha Enter Code : Submit Related Articles How to Make a House Warmer Without a Furnace Does an Old Furnace Need to Be Replaced ? How to Measure the BTUs for the Size of a House Does an Oil Furnace Need a Chimney Liner ? How to Determine Proper Furnace Size How Much Does Replacing Your Furnace Improve Your Home Value ? More Articles How Many Years Should a Gas Furnace Last ? How to Build a Furnace Enclosure How to Improve Furnace Airflow How Long Does the Average Furnace Last ? How to Select a Furnace The Location of an Outdoor Wood Furnace Trending in Your Area How to Repair a Sink Cold Water Line Repairing a sink cold water line be go to require you to ... How to Repair a Plumbing Water Line When repair a plumbing water line , you 're always go ... How to Install an Instantaneous Water Heater Installing an instantaneous water heater be a bit different ... How to Install a Toilet Water Input Hose Installing a toilet water input hose should n't take more ... Can You Plumb Water Holding Tanks With PVC ... Whether or not you can plumb water hold tank with PVC ... What Are the Causes of Water Coming Up the ... If water be come up the drain in a sink , a few different ... How to Troubleshoot a Toilet Repair There be a large number of thing that can potentially go ... How to Install an Exterior Door Knob & Dead ... Installing an exterior door knob and dead bolt be something ... Powered by Demand Media News Sports Business A & E Food Living Travel Columns Cars Jobs Real Estate Find & Save how many btu doe a furnace need for a house ? | home guide | sf gate sf gate news sport business a & e food live travel column more less car job real estate find & save section skip to main content . home guide by demand medium home guide menu buy real estate construction & remodeling design foreclosure government housing assistance home decoration & design indoors insurance & inspection more landlord & tenant mortgage & loan payment mortgage & loan rate mortgage outdoors real estate advice real estate rental & lease real estate term & definition real estate value & tax refinance repair sell real estate storage type of mortgage & loan home guide real estate value & tax other real estate value & tax how many btu doe a furnace need for a house ? how many btu doe a furnace need for a house ? by tony guerra new high-efficiency furnace typically cost $ 5,000 to $ 8,000 , include installation . a btu be a british thermal unit , or a measure of thermal or heat energy . btu be use to determine thermal energy output in a variety of device , include furnace . a typical home furnace produce thousand of btu and instal one that meet your home 's heating need be vital . if your home 's furnace be too large , it will turn on and off too often and lose efficiency and , if it 's too small , it will run too often and wo n't adequately heat your home . btu per square foot heating and air condition contractor use various load calculation to determine furnace size for home and these calculation be often complex . but there be also `` rule-of-thumb '' estimation you can use to pick a furnace size for your home . for cooler climate , a very broad estimate of furnace size be to select one that generate 40 to 45 btu per square foot . at 40 to 45 btu per square foot , you 'd need a 100,000 to 112,500 btu furnace to heat your 2,500-square-foot home . heating degree-day calculation a heating degree-day calculation , use the month of july a a factor , be a more precise way of estimate furnace size . natural gas for a furnace be price by the therm , or per 100,000 btu . therm be list on your home 's gas bill in annual and monthly usage rate . the heating degree-day calculation for a furnace be 50 x heating therm x furnace efficiency = load in btus/hour . your furnace must produce a certain load , measure in btu per hour , to heat your home . calculate your furnace size suppose your home us 1,500 therm of natural gas annually , your july usage rate be 25 therm and your furnace be 82 percent efficient . for a heating degree-day calculation , subtract 12 x 25 , or your july usage rate , from your annual therm usage rate of 1,500 , or 1,500 - 300 = 1,200 , or your home 's therm heating load . your home 's heating degree-day calculation formula would be 50 x 1200 x .82 , or 49,200 . using heating degree-day calculation , a 50,000 btu furnace can adequately heat your home . furnace heating efficiency new furnace come with a yellow energy guide attach that provides their energy efficiency rating . different furnace also deliver different efficiency level . for example , if your furnace be 82 percent efficient , it 's deliver 82 percent of it fuel into your house a heat . the great your furnace 's efficiency , the low it fuel usage rate be , mean it will be less costly to operate . more efficient furnace also tend to cost more , at least up front , but they 're typically less costly over the long term . reference ( 4 ) alpine home air product : measuring heating capacity michael energy : furnace : size by the seat of your pant tulsa gas technology , inc. : how natural gas be measured houselogic : should the energy department tell you what kind of furnace to buy ? resource ( 1 ) michigan state university extension : energy tip - choosing the right furnace for your home about the author tony guerra serve more than 20 year in the u.s. navy . he also spend seven year a an airline operation manager . guerra be a former realtor , real-estate salesperson , associate broker and real-estate education instructor . he hold a master 's degree in management and a bachelor 's degree in interdisciplinary study . photo credit jupiterimages/stockbyte/getty image suggest a correction have feedback ? thank you for provide feedback to our editorial staff on this article . please fill in the following information so we can alert the home guide editorial team about a factual or typographical error in this story . all field be require . name e-mail feedback type what kind of error ? factual or typographical digital right and permission other comment or correction 2000 character limit captcha enter code : submit related article how to make a house warmer without a furnace do an old furnace need to be replace ? how to measure the btu for the size of a house do an oil furnace need a chimney liner ? how to determine proper furnace size how much do replacing your furnace improve your home value ? more article how many year should a gas furnace last ? how to build a furnace enclosure how to improve furnace airflow how long doe the average furnace last ? how to select a furnace the location of an outdoor wood furnace trend in your area how to repair a sink cold water line repair a sink cold water line be go to require you to ... how to repair a plumbing water line when repair a plumbing water line , you 're always go ... how to install an instantaneous water heater instal an instantaneous water heater be a bit different ... how to install a toilet water input hose instal a toilet water input hose should n't take more ... can you plumb water holding tank with pvc ... whether or not you can plumb water hold tank with pvc ... what be the cause of water coming up the ... if water be come up the drain in a sink , a few different ... how to troubleshoot a toilet repair there be a large number of thing that can potentially go ... how to install an exterior door knob & dead ... instal an exterior door knob and dead bolt be something ... powered by demand medium news sport business a & e food live travel column car job real estate find & save 