Boil Water Order FAQ | MassDEP State Offices & Courts State A-Z Topics State Forms No Active Alerts Skip to main content Resize text A A Translate this page to : English Catal etina Dansk Nederlands Eesti Suomi Franais Deutsch Kreyl Ayisyen Hmong Daw Magyar Indonesia Italiano Latvieu Lietuvi Melayu Norsk Polski Portugus Romn Slovenina Slovenina Espaol Svensk Trke Ting Vit Translate this Page Translation Disabled The Official Website of the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs Energy and Environmental Affairs Input Search Query Select an Area to Search in Energy & Environment in Agricultural Resources in Conservation and Recreation in Energy Resources in Environmental Protection in Fish and Game in Public Utilities in Mass.Gov Main Menu Agriculture Expand Agriculture Farms , Markets , and Products Farms , Markets , and Products MDAR 's Division of Agricultural Markets Find a Farm or Market Massgrown and Fresher Commonwealth Quality Program Crop & Pest Services Crop & Pest Services MDAR 's Division of Crop and Pest Services Pesticide Program Mosquito Control Animal Feed Registration Conservation , Funding & Tech Assistance Conservation , Funding & Tech Assistance Div of Agricultural Conservation and Tech Assistance Land Protection Energy Efficiency , Conservation , and Renewables Program Composting Animal Health Animal Health MDAR 's Division of Animal Health Shelter and Rescue Riding Instructor Licensing MDAR 's Rabies Control Program Boards & Commissions Boards & Commissions MDAR 's Boards and Commissions Regulations & Statutes Agricultural Commissions Food Policy Council Most Requested Most Requested Pesticide Exams Rosters and Results Pesticide Program Spring Rabies Clinics Massachusetts Prohibited Plant List Massachusetts Approved Shelter and Rescue Organizations Quick Links Quick Links MDAR A - Z Index Calendar Aquaculture Agricultural Resources Facts and Statistics Energy & Utilities Expand Energy & Utilities Energy Prices & Markets Energy Prices & Markets Energy Markets Heating Oil Price Survey for March 3 , 2015 Propane Price Survey for March 3 , 2015 Wood Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Prices for March 3 , 2015 Electricity Rates Natural Gas Rates Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Renewable Energy Snapshot RPS/APS Solar Wind DG & Interconnection Alternative Transportation Biomass Advanced Biofuels Renewable Energy Funding and Incentives Energy Efficiency Energy Efficiency Energy Efficiency for Businesses & Institutions Energy Efficiency for Cities and Towns Energy Efficiency in State Government Operations Energy Efficiency for Your Home Policies and Regulations for Energy Efficiency Resources for Energy Efficiency Practitioners DPU Energy Efficiency Activities Zero Net Energy Buildings ( ZNEB ) ReBuild Western Massachusetts Home Heating Home Heating Heating & Energy Savings Resources Heating Oil Propane Electric Natural Gas Wood Maintenance Issues Homeowner Oil Heating System Upgrade and ... Safety Issues US DOE Energy Savers Green Communities Green Communities Meet the 136 Green Communities file size 1MB About the Green Communities Division Municipal Energy Efficiency EMS How to Become a Green Community and Qualify for Grants MassEnergyInsight Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant ... How to Find Your Regional Coordinator Green Communities ' Library Other Resources - Local and Regional Energy Initiatives Subscribe to Green Communities ' Email Updates Green Communities Newsletter & Email Archive Green Business Green Business Development Stormwater Technologies Clearinghouse ( UMass ) Other Resources for Green Business Development Green Business Technology Fact Sheets Green Business Technology Assessment Reports Evaluation of Technologies for the Removal of ... Alternative Transportation Alternative Transportation Clean Cities Coalition and Alternative Transportation Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Grants Clean Cities 2010 Vehicle Buyer 's Guide [ DOE ] Alternative Fuels & Advanced Vehicles Data Center Biodiesel for Alternative Fuel Vehicles Electric Vehicles ( EVs ) Ethanol Natural Gas Propane [ DOE ] Alternative Fuels : Facts [ EIA ] New Energy Tax Credits for AFVs [ Fueleconomy.gov ] Guidelines for Alternative Fuel Conversion ... Natural Gas Utility Natural Gas Industry Gas Div Responsibilities Natural Gas Safety and Reliability Customer Rights and Information Natural Gas Annual Reports , Tariffs , Apps & Forms Learn About Residential Natural Gas Prices Gas Distribution System Gas Meter Testing and Replacement Energy Facilities Siting Board Energy Facilities Siting Board About the Energy Facilities Siting Board Jurisdiction Relevant Regulations EFSB Process Siting Board Dockets EFSB Decisions Siting Board Calendar FAQ's For the Public Related Links Contact Us Relevant Statutes Siting Division of the DPU Siting Division of the DPU About the Siting Division Regulations DPU Siting Division Calendar Siting Division Process Siting Division Dockets DPU Orders For the Public For Developers/Utility Companies Related Links Contact Us Most Requested Most Requested Heating Oil Price Surveys Propane Price Surveys Wind Energy Facts Green Communities Net Metering Frequently Asked Questions and Answers Solar Carve-Out / SREC I Resources for Consumers Re Electric Competitive Supply Consumer Assistance DPU Fileroom 2014-2015 Peak Gas Adjustment Factors Environmental Protection Expand Environmental Protection Clean Air & Climate Protection Clean Air & Climate Protection Air Monitoring Mass Progress towards Reducing Greenhouse Gas ( GHG ) Green House Gas and Climate Change Programs and Initiatives Laws and Rules Grants and Financial Assistance Permit and Reporting Forms Reports , Plans and Data Recycling & Reducing Waste Recycling & Reducing Waste Reduce , Reuse , Recycle Solid Waste Facilities in Massachusetts Hazardous Waste Management Home Reports , Plans & Data Laws & Rules Permit & Reporting Forms Grants & Financial Assistance Cleanup of Waste Sites & Spills Cleanup of Waste Sites & Spills Cleanup Sites & Locations Brownfields Natural Resource Damages Toxics Reduction and Hazards Management Toxics Reduction and Hazards Management Toxics Use Reduction Program Toxics & Hazards Sources & Types UST Program Home Toxics Use Reduction Act ( TURA ) Permit & Reporting Forms Laws & Rules Reports , Plans & Data Grants & Financial Assistance Water Resources Protection Water Resources Protection Drinking Water Quality Wetlands & Watersheds Wastewater & Septic Systems Laws & Rules Permits & Reporting Forms Grants & Financial Assistance Reports , Plans & Data Stormwater Energy Resources for Water Managing Wastewater & Stormwater Preserving Water Resources Coasts & Oceans Coasts & Oceans Massachusetts Office of Coastal Zone Management Massachusetts Ocean Management Plan Coastal Erosion Commission State Enhanced Remedy : New Bedford 's South Terminal StormSmart Coasts - Managing Erosion and Flooding National Estuary Programs Port and Harbor Planning Coastal Water Quality Coastal Habitat Aquatic Invasive Species Coastal and Ocean Mapping and Data COASTSWEEP Beach Cleanup Coastal Landscaping State Coastal Policies and Federal Consistency Review CZ-Tips for Protecting and Enjoying the Coast Most Requested Most Requested Title 5 Cleanup of Sites and Spills Asbestos eDEP Online Filing MassDEP Contacts and Locations Quick Links Quick Links CZM StormSmart Coasts LSP Searchable List MassDEP A to Z Index MEPA Environmental Monitor MassDep Service Center Fisheries , Wildlife & Habitats Expand Fisheries , Wildlife & Habitats Fishing and Hunting License Fishing and Hunting License MassFishHunt Buy a Recreational Fishing or Hunting License Renew your Recreational Fishing or Hunting License Print your Recreational Fishing or Hunting License Recreational Saltwater Permits Recreational Lobster Permit Application Massachusetts Commercial Fishing Permits Antlerless Deer Permits Crossbow Permit Application Who Needs a License ? License Types and Fees Where to Buy a License Marine Fisheries Marine Fisheries Fish Stocking Information Buy a Recreational Fishing License Renew your Recreational Fishing License Print your Recreational Fishing License Freshwater Fishing Information Commercial Fishing Recreational Fishing Seafood & Bait Dealers Fishing & Hunting Fishing & Hunting Fishing , Hunting or Sporting Licenses Hunting and Freshwater Fishing Laws Massachusetts Hunter Education Stocked Waters Places to Hunt Seasons Summary 2015 Places to Fish Pond Maps Ecological Restoration Ecological Restoration Aquatic Habitat Restoration Technical Assistance Invasive Species Living with Wildlife Living with Wildlife Wildlife Rehabilitation Wildlife a Pets Report Rare Species Wildlife Fact Sheets Library Moving Wildlife Finding Young Wildlife Preventing Conflicts with Wildlife PAC Agents & Districts Laws & Regulations Land Conservation Land Conservation Commonwealth Conservation Land Tax Credit ( CLTC ) Land Protection Planning & Land Use Sustainable Forest Management MA Smart Growth/ Smart Energy Toolkit Land and Recreation Agricultural Grants & Loans Greenways and Trails Historic Landscape Preservation Program Related Agencies Related Agencies Department of Fish & Game Department of Conservation and Recreation Massachusetts Environmental Police Most Requested Most Requested Hunting Zones Hunting and Fishing License Hunting Seasons 2015 Pheasant Hunting Pheasant Stocking Recreation & Conservation Expand Recreation & Conservation Fishing & Hunting Fishing & Hunting Fishing , Hunting or Sporting Licenses Hunting and Freshwater Fishing Laws Massachusetts Hunter Education Stocked Waters Places to Hunt Seasons Summary 2015 Places to Fish Pond Maps Outdoor Recreation Outdoor Recreation Fishing & Hunting Pools & Beaches State Parks & Camping Boating Active & Team Sports Off-Highway Vehicle Program ( OHV ) Land Use & Management Land Use & Management Water Supply Protection Stormwater Management Land Protection Division of Conservation Services ( DCS ) Land Conservation Forestry Forestry Forest Management on State Lands Forest Reserves Forest Management on Private Lands Forestry Forestry Programs at DCR Forestry Resources & Documents ( DCR ) Water Supply and Resources Water Supply and Resources Watershed Management Water Resources Lakes & Ponds Water Data Tracking Interbasin Transfer Act Hazard Mitigation Water Quality Monitoring Places to Go Places to Go Swimming Areas Massachusetts Forest and Parks Trails Wildlife Sanctuaries Historic Sites Visit a State Farm Playgrounds Skating Massachusetts Wineries Programs and Activities Programs and Activities DCR 's Educational Programs Agricultural Fairs Land Protection Program Most Requested Most Requested Ice Skating Skiing ( Cross-Country ) Blue Hills Reservation Camping Places to Go Nickerson State Park Mount Greylock State Reservation Walden Pond State Reservation Snowmobiling Employment Online Services Online Services Mass Parks Permits and Rentals Reserve a campsite Fishing , Hunting , Hiking , and Boating Access Maps Find a State Park Boat & Recreational Vehicle registration Buy hunting & fish license Services & Assistance Expand Services & Assistance Education & Training Education & Training 21st Annual Secretarys Award Application Energy and Environmental Awards Conservation & Recreation Educational Programs Agricultural Business Training Program ( ABTP ) Fish & Wildlife Education Programs Hunter Education Boating Education Program Education and Outreach Coastal and Ocean Education Guide Hurricane Preparedness Kit Enforcement Enforcement Enforcement & Appeals Massachusetts Environmental Police Department of Public Utilities Consumer Assistance Environmental Crimes Bureau Grants & Loans Grant & Loan Programs Grants Guide Assistance for those Seeking Grants Massachusetts Environmental Trust ( MET ) Dam and Seawall Repair or Removal Fund Division of Conservation Services ( DCS ) Guidance & Technical Assistance Guidance & Technical Assistance Business Assistance Office of Geographic Information ( MassGIS ) Leading by Example ( LBE ) MA Smart Growth/ Smart Energy Toolkit Green Business Development Open Space , Recreation , and Conservation Resources Area of Critical Environmental Concern ( ACEC ) ... Technical Assistance ( CZM ) StormSmart Coasts Division of Ecological Restoration Historic Landscape Preservation Program Agencies and Divisions Other Selected State Agencies and Authorities Massachusetts Conservation Districts Laws & Regulations Laws & Regulations Dam and Seawall Repair or Removal Fund Final Provisions for Recycling Beverage Containers Air Quality Laws & Rules Commercial Fishing Regulations Leading by Example : Environmental Compliance Saltwater Fishing Regulations Site Cleanup Regulations & Standards Toxics & Hazards Regulations & Standards Statutes and Regulations Waste & Recycling Laws & Rules Wildlife Laws & Regulations Water Laws & Regulations Mapping Resources Mapping Resources Mass Ocean Resource Information System Natural Heritage GIS Resources Office of Geographic Information ( MassGIS ) Online Mapping Strategic Plan for Spatial Data MACMAPP Maps and Atlases Permitting & Licensing Permitting & Licensing Boat , Off-Highway Vehicle or Snowmobile Registration Boat , OHV or Snowmobile Registration Renewal Environmental Permits , Reporting and Forms Commercial Fishing Permits Recreational Saltwater Fishing Permits Mass Parks Permits and Rentals Hunting and Fishing License Contact an EEA Agency or Division Contact an EEA Agency or Division Department of Agricultural Resources Department of Conservation and Recreation Department of Energy Resources Department of Environmental Protection Department of Fish and Game Department of Public Utilities Office of Coastal Zone Management Massachusetts Bays National Estuary Program Massachusetts Environmental Police Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act ( MEPA ) Office of Grants and Technical Assistance Office of Technical Assistance and Technology ( OTA ) Water Resources Commission Hazardous Waste Site Cleanup Professionals Related Links Related Links DCR service and assistance DEP service and assistance DPU consumer assistance CZM Technical Assistance MassDEP Public Hearings The current page belongs to the main category of Agencies Expand Agencies Department of Agricultural Resources Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources MDAR Staff Directory MDAR A - Z Index Division of Administration Division of Agricultural Conservation & Tech Assistance Division of Agricultural Markets Division of Animal Health Division of Crop and Pest Services Boards and Commissions Department of Conservation and Recreation Department of Conservation and Recreation MassParks Services & Assistance Conservation Water Resources Protection Get Involved Public Outreach Inside Our Agency Department of Energy Resources ( DOER ) Department of Energy Resources ( DOER ) Clean Cities Coalition and Alternative Transportation Green Communities Clean Energy Education for K-12 Students Energy Efficiency Energy Prices & Markets Home Heating Leading by Example ( LBE ) Renewable Energy Department of Environmental Protection Department of Environmental Protection About MassDEP News , Events & Hearings Air Quality Water Resources Waste & Recycling Toxics & Hazards Cleanup of Sites & Spills Service Center MassDEP A to Z Quicklinks Department of Fish & Game Massachusetts Department of Fish & Game About Fish & Game Division of Marine Fisheries Division of Ecological Restoration Division of Fisheries & Wildlife Office of Fishing & Boating Access Department of Public Utilities Department of Public Utilities ( DPU ) Administration Division Consumer Assistance DRFA Electric Power Information Energy Facilities Siting Board Executive Division Natural Gas Utility Hydropower Legal Division Pipeline Safety Division Rates Division Siting Division of the DPU Transportation Division Water Distribution EEA Divisions EEA Divisions Massachusetts Office of Coastal Zone Management ( CZM ) Massachusetts Bays National Estuary Program ( MassBays ) Division of Conservation Services ( DCS ) Massachusetts Environmental Police Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act ( MEPA ) Massachusetts Environmental Trust ( MET ) Office of Grants and Technical Assistance Office of Technical Assistance and Technology ( OTA ) Water Resources Commission Hazardous Waste Site Cleanup Professionals Contact an EEA Agency or Division Contact an EEA Agency or Division Department of Agricultural Resources Department of Conservation and Recreation Department of Energy Resources Department of Environmental Protection Department of Fish and Game Department of Public Utilities Office of Coastal Zone Management Massachusetts Bays National Estuary Program Massachusetts Environmental Police Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act ( MEPA ) Office of Grants and Technical Assistance Office of Technical Assistance and Technology ( OTA ) Water Resources Commission Hazardous Waste Site Cleanup Professionals Breadcrumbs EEA Home Agencies MassDEP Water Resources Drinking Water FAQs : Boil Water Order FAQs : Boil Water Order Are extra precaution necessary during a water-borne outbreak ? Who can be affect ? Why must I boil my water ? How can I make my water safe ? Is it necessary to boil all water in the home during an advisory or order ? How should tap water be boil properly ? I have a water treatment device ; do I still need to boil my drinking water ? Can I use bottle water ? During a boil order , can I wash my hand use tap water ? During a boil order , can my family take shower or bath use tap water ? During a boil order , can I wash dish use tap water ? Can I use my coffee maker , ice machine , water or soda dispenser ? Can I give my pet tap water ? What be the symptom of water-borne illness ? What if I drink the water already ? How long will the boil order remain in effect ? What should I do when the boil water advisory or order have be lift ? Are extra precaution necessary during a water-borne outbreak ? If the Massachusetts Department of Public Health ( DPH ) , work with the MassDEP , determine that there be a water-borne disease outbreak , MassDEP and MassDPH will advise the PWS and consumer of any other precaution that be necessary . Who can be affect ? Anyone who ingests contaminate water may become ill . Infants , young child , the elderly , and people with severely compromise immune system be more at risk of illness . Why must I boil my water ? A boil order have be issue to your water system because either recent testing have show the presence of organism that could cause illness ( e.g . fecal or E. coli bacteria ) , or technical/physical problem in the water system have significantly increase the possibility of bacterial contamination . How can I make my water safe ? Boiling the water be the best way to ensure that it be free of illness-causing organism . Bring water to a rolling boil for a minimum of one minute . When it cool , refrigerate the water in clean container . ( A pinch of salt per quart may improve the rather flat taste of boil water ) . If you do not want to boil your water , you can disinfect it by add 1/8 teaspoon of bleach ( common household bleach contain 5.25 percent sodium hypochlorite ) per gallon of water . Do not use bleach contain perfume , dye , or other additive . Is it necessary to boil all water in the home during an advisory or order ? During boil water advisory or boil water order , you should boil all water use for drinking , prepare food , beverage , ice cube , wash fruit and vegetable , or brush teeth . Severely immuno-compromised individual should always boil their tap water for the purpose note above . Infant formulas should be prepare use boil tap water , at all time . In the event that boil be not practical , the PWS may recommend an alternative supply know to be safe ( e.g. , bottle water ) or may direct you to disinfect the water use household bleach . It be not necessary to boil tap water use for other household purpose , such a showering , laundry , or bath . Adults , teen , and old child can wash , bathe , or shower ; however , they should avoid swallow the water . Toddlers and infant should be sponge-bathed . How should tap water be boil properly ? Water should be place in a heat-resistant container or in an electric kettle without an automatic shut-off and bring to a rolling boil for 1 minute to kill all disease-causing organism . Water can also be boil in a microwave oven use a microwave-safe container , but it be advisable to include a glass rod or wooden or plastic stir stick in the container to prevent the formation of superheated water ( water heat above it boiling point , without the formation of steam ) . The water should then be cool and pour into a clean container or refrigerate until you be ready to use it . At elevation over 6,500 foot ( 2,000 meter ) water boil at a slightly low temperature and should therefore be boil for at least two minute to kill all disease-causing organism . I have a water treatment device ; do I still need to boil my drinking water ? If the device be design to improve the taste and odor or chemical quality of the water , such a activate carbon filter , it be still necessary to boil the water . Check with the manufacturer if you be not certain . Can I use bottle water ? Buying bottle water may be a feasible alternative to boiling water . Bottled water operation be routinely inspect , and sample be periodically analyze to ensure they meet health standard . What can I do with my tap water ? Drinking No Ice Cubes No , and exist ice cube should be throw out . See below for information on ice machine . Brushing Teeth No Baby 's Formula No Washing Fruit/Vegetables No Preparing Food No Coffee , Tea , Lemonade , etc . No . See below for information on soda dispenser and coffee maker . Laundry Yes Watering Grass or Garden Yes , but fruits/vegetables must be wash use boil or bottle water before consumption . Washing Hands See below Showers or Baths See below Washing Dishes See below During a boil order , can I wash my hand use tap water ? It be recommend that you wash your hand use soap and either bottled water or boil water . An alcohol-based hand sanitizer may also be use . During a boil order , can my family take shower or bath use tap water ? The risk of bath in tap water be uncertain and so should be avoid particularly by people with open wound or who be immunocompromised . For those people who choose to shower or bathe in the tap water , minimize the time spent in the water and be sure to keep your eye and mouth close . Babies and young child should not bathe or shower in tap water because they often swallow some water accidentally . During a boil order , can I wash dish use tap water ? You may use a dishwasher if it have a sanitizing cycle . If it do not have a sanitize cycle , or you be not sure if it do , you may hand wash dish and utensil by follow these step : 1.Wash the dish a you normally would . 2.As a final step , immerse the dish for at least one minute in lukewarm water to which a teaspoon of bleach per gallon of water have be add . 3.Allow the dish to completely air dry . back to Boil Water Order FAQ index Can I use my coffee maker , ice machine , water or soda dispenser ? None of these device should be use if they be directly connect to your water supply . Also , filter be unacceptable for removing bacteria . Once you have be notify that the boil order have be lift , these device should be clean and sanitize accord to the operator 's manual for the device . Can I give my pet tap water ? Although pet be not normally affect by the same disease a human , caution suggest give pet boil or bottle water . What be the symptom of water-borne illness ? Disease symptom may include diarrhea , cramp , nausea and possible jaundice and associate headache and fatigue . Symptoms may appear a early a a few hour to several day after infection and may last more than two week . These symptom , however , be not just associate with disease-causing organism in drink water ; they may also be cause by a number of other factor . If you be ill with these symptom , contact your health care provider . What if I drink the water already ? There be nothing you can do about the exposure you have already receive . If you become ill , contact your health care provider . Follow the above recommendation about use your water until you be tell the water be safe again . How long will the boil order remain in effect ? Each boil order situation be different , make it impossible to predict how long the boil order will remain in effect . It will not be lift until testing show that the water meet public health standard . Boil water advisory or boil water order be lift by the MassDEP when the water be consider safe and no longer pose a threat to public health . What should I do when the boil water advisory or order have be lift ? The MassDEP and PWS will provide specific instruction . Consumers should flush water pipe within the home . When flush it be important to carefully follow the instruction provide . Some type of water treatment device may need to be disinfect and flush to remove any contaminate water before be use . Depending on the type of water treatment device , the device may need to be replace . Check with the manufacturer for detail . A note about E. coli bacteria : E. coli be a sub-group of the fecal coliform bacteria group . There be many strain of E. coli , most of which be harmless , but some strain can cause illness . E. coli outbreaks receive much medium coverage . Most outbreaks have be relate to food contamination ( not water ) cause by a specific strain of E. coli know a E. coli O157 : H7 . When a drinking water sample be report a `` E. coli positive '' , it do not mean that this specific strain be present and in fact , it be probably not present . However , it do indicate recent fecal contamination . Boiling or treat contaminate drink water with a disinfectant destroys all form of E. coli , include O157 : H7 . Complementary Content Drinking Water Public Health Orders Database of public-health order issue by MassDEP over the past calendar year . Updated within 24 hour for all public health order issue during normal business hour . Orders issue on holiday or weekend be update within 24 hour of the next business day . For more information about a current order , check your community 's website or contact your local water department . Consumer Information on Boil Orders Fact sheet , frequently-asked question , and general guideline on what do when a boil water order have be issue for your community . Also provide be link to your town 's website . 2015 Commonwealth of Massachusetts . Mass.Gov be a register service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts . EEA Site Policies Contact EEA About EEA Escape key will cancel and close this dialog window . close this box Tool Name : Baynote , Inc . Recommendations The information below summarizes privacy policy term relate to content recommendation on Mass.Gov and be excerpt from the full Mass.gov privacy policy . Purpose : Displays relevant content recommendation base on the site usage pattern of all user of Mass.Gov . If Personalization be enable ( the default set ) , your personal site usage pattern today and on prior visit to Mass.gov will be display to you and will also be a factor in determining personalize relevant recommendation for you . Data Collected : A random anonymous unique identifier be assign and track for each user of the website . This identifier be send to our vendor , Baynote , when you view a page , open a document or click a link on Mass.Gov . Our vendor then analyze the specific content that be view and provide content recommendation to similar content that you may find useful . A full description of what data Baynote collect and how it use this data be available at http : //www.baynote.com/baynote-services-privacy-policy/ . Please note that the tool use persistent cooky . These cooky will be Mass.gov domain cooky and not Baynote domain cooky . The cooky will store information relate to a user Mass.gov Web site usage , include the URL and title of site recently visit and the random anonymous unique identifier assign to the user . In general , and a describe in more detail in Baynotes service privacy policy link to above , Baynote only use the personalized information it gather to provide recommendation service and display past usage for Mass.Gov user and will not share this information with any third party , include advertiser . The information collect will not affect content you may see on site unaffiliated with Mass.Gov . Express Opt Out : If personalization of recommendation base on the content you view be not desire , or you do not wish to display a list of recently view Mass.gov page , you may turn personalization off . You can do this by using either the switch locate below in this privacy policy or an identical switch locate directly above the content recommendation and recently view content box display on the Mass.gov site . Once you turn off personalization , your content recommendation will be base on the overall traffic pattern of all user of Mass.Gov and they will not specifically take into account your own personal usage pattern . If you turn off personalization , information collect by this Tool that be associate with your content usage will be delete from your cooky , and no further information about your content usage will be send to our vendor . Disabling personalization will affect both content recommendation and recently view page link . If you turn off personalization , this off set will persist a you browse Mass.Gov and during any future session . The opt- boil water order faq | massdep state office & court state a-z topic state form no active alert skip to main content resize text a a translate this page to : english catal etina dansk nederland eesti suomi franais deutsch kreyl ayisyen hmong daw magyar indonesia italiano latvieu lietuvi melayu norsk polski portugus romn slovenina slovenina espaol svensk trke ting vit translate this page translation disable the official website of the executive office of energy and environmental affair energy and environmental affair input search query select an area to search in energy & environment in agricultural resource in conservation and recreation in energy resource in environmental protection in fish and game in public utility in mass.gov main menu agriculture expand agriculture farm , market , and product farm , market , and product mdar 's division of agricultural market find a farm or market massgrown and fresher commonwealth quality program crop & pest service crop & pest service mdar 's division of crop and pest service pesticide program mosquito control animal feed registration conservation , funding & tech assistance conservation , funding & tech assistance div of agricultural conservation and tech assistance land protection energy efficiency , conservation , and renewables program compost animal health animal health mdar 's division of animal health shelter and rescue rid instructor licensing mdar 's rabies control program board & commission board & commission mdar 's board and commission regulation & statute agricultural commission food policy council most request most request pesticide exam roster and result pesticide program spring rabies clinic massachusetts prohibit plant list massachusetts approve shelter and rescue organization quick link quick link mdar a - z index calendar aquaculture agricultural resource fact and statistic energy & utility expand energy & utility energy price & market energy price & market energy market heating oil price survey for march 3 , 2015 propane price survey for march 3 , 2015 wood gasoline and diesel fuel price for march 3 , 2015 electricity rate natural gas rate renewable energy renewable energy renewable energy snapshot rps/aps solar wind dg & interconnection alternative transportation biomass advanced biofuels renewable energy funding and incentive energy efficiency energy efficiency energy efficiency for business & institution energy efficiency for city and town energy efficiency in state government operation energy efficiency for your home policy and regulation for energy efficiency resource for energy efficiency practitioner dpu energy efficiency activity zero net energy building ( zneb ) rebuild western massachusetts home heating home heating heating & energy saving resource heating oil propane electric natural gas wood maintenance issue homeowner oil heating system upgrade and ... safety issue u doe energy saver green community green community meet the 136 green community file size 1mb about the green community division municipal energy efficiency em how to become a green community and qualify for grant massenergyinsight energy efficiency and conservation block grant ... how to find your regional coordinator green community ' library other resource - local and regional energy initiative subscribe to green community ' email update green community newsletter & email archive green business green business development stormwater technology clearinghouse ( uma ) other resource for green business development green business technology fact sheet green business technology assessment report evaluation of technology for the removal of ... alternative transportation alternative transportation clean city coalition and alternative transportation electric vehicle infrastructure grant clean city 2010 vehicle buyer 's guide [ doe ] alternative fuel & advanced vehicle data center biodiesel for alternative fuel vehicle electric vehicle ( ev ) ethanol natural gas propane [ doe ] alternative fuel : fact [ eia ] new energy tax credit for afvs [ fueleconomy.gov ] guideline for alternative fuel conversion ... natural gas utility natural gas industry gas div responsibility natural gas safety and reliability customer right and information natural gas annual report , tariff , apps & form learn about residential natural gas price gas distribution system gas meter testing and replacement energy facility siting board energy facility siting board about the energy facility siting board jurisdiction relevant regulation efsb process sit board docket efsb decision sit board calendar faq's for the public related link contact u relevant statute sit division of the dpu sit division of the dpu about the siting division regulation dpu siting division calendar sit division process sit division docket dpu order for the public for developers/utility company related link contact u most request most request heating oil price survey propane price survey wind energy fact green community net metering frequently asked question and answer solar carve-out / srec i resource for consumer re electric competitive supply consumer assistance dpu fileroom 2014-2015 peak gas adjustment factor environmental protection expand environmental protection clean air & climate protection clean air & climate protection air monitoring mass progress towards reducing greenhouse gas ( ghg ) green house gas and climate change program and initiative law and rule grant and financial assistance permit and reporting form report , plan and data recycle & reducing waste recycle & reducing waste reduce , reuse , recycle solid waste facility in massachusetts hazardous waste management home report , plan & data law & rule permit & reporting form grant & financial assistance cleanup of waste site & spill cleanup of waste site & spill cleanup site & location brownfields natural resource damage toxics reduction and hazard management toxics reduction and hazard management toxics use reduction program toxics & hazard source & type ust program home toxics use reduction act ( tura ) permit & reporting form law & rule report , plan & data grant & financial assistance water resource protection water resource protection drink water quality wetland & watershed wastewater & septic system law & rule permit & reporting form grant & financial assistance report , plan & data stormwater energy resource for water manage wastewater & stormwater preserve water resource coast & ocean coast & ocean massachusetts office of coastal zone management massachusetts ocean management plan coastal erosion commission state enhanced remedy : new bedford 's south terminal stormsmart coast - manage erosion and flooding national estuary program port and harbor planning coastal water quality coastal habitat aquatic invasive specie coastal and ocean mapping and data coastsweep beach cleanup coastal landscaping state coastal policy and federal consistency review cz-tips for protecting and enjoying the coast most request most request title 5 cleanup of site and spill asbestos edep online filing massdep contact and location quick link quick link czm stormsmart coast lsp searchable list massdep a to z index mepa environmental monitor massdep service center fishery , wildlife & habitat expand fishery , wildlife & habitat fish and hunting license fish and hunting license massfishhunt buy a recreational fishing or hunting license renew your recreational fishing or hunting license print your recreational fishing or hunting license recreational saltwater permit recreational lobster permit application massachusetts commercial fishing permit antlerless deer permit crossbow permit application who need a license ? license type and fee where to buy a license marine fishery marine fishery fish stocking information buy a recreational fishing license renew your recreational fishing license print your recreational fishing license freshwater fishing information commercial fishing recreational fishing seafood & bait dealer fish & hunting fish & hunting fish , hunting or sporting license hunt and freshwater fishing law massachusetts hunter education stocked water place to hunt season summary 2015 place to fish pond map ecological restoration ecological restoration aquatic habitat restoration technical assistance invasive specie live with wildlife live with wildlife wildlife rehabilitation wildlife a pet report rare specie wildlife fact sheet library move wildlife find young wildlife prevent conflict with wildlife pac agent & district law & regulation land conservation land conservation commonwealth conservation land tax credit ( cltc ) land protection plan & land use sustainable forest management ma smart growth/ smart energy toolkit land and recreation agricultural grant & loan greenway and trail historic landscape preservation program related agency related agency department of fish & game department of conservation and recreation massachusetts environmental police most request most request hunt zone hunt and fishing license hunt season 2015 pheasant hunting pheasant stocking recreation & conservation expand recreation & conservation fish & hunting fish & hunting fish , hunting or sporting license hunt and freshwater fishing law massachusetts hunter education stocked water place to hunt season summary 2015 place to fish pond map outdoor recreation outdoor recreation fish & hunting pool & beach state park & camping boat active & team sport off-highway vehicle program ( ohv ) land use & management land use & management water supply protection stormwater management land protection division of conservation service ( dc ) land conservation forestry forestry forest management on state land forest reserve forest management on private land forestry forestry program at dcr forestry resource & document ( dcr ) water supply and resource water supply and resource watershed management water resource lake & pond water data tracking interbasin transfer act hazard mitigation water quality monitoring place to go place to go swim area massachusetts forest and park trail wildlife sanctuary historic site visit a state farm playground skate massachusetts winery program and activity program and activity dcr 's educational program agricultural fair land protection program most request most request ice skating ski ( cross-country ) blue hill reservation camp place to go nickerson state park mount greylock state reservation walden pond state reservation snowmobile employment online service online service mass park permit and rental reserve a campsite fish , hunting , hiking , and boating access map find a state park boat & recreational vehicle registration buy hunting & fish license service & assistance expand service & assistance education & training education & training 21st annual secretary award application energy and environmental award conservation & recreation educational program agricultural business training program ( abtp ) fish & wildlife education program hunter education boat education program education and outreach coastal and ocean education guide hurricane preparedness kit enforcement enforcement enforcement & appeal massachusetts environmental police department of public utility consumer assistance environmental crime bureau grant & loan grant & loan program grant guide assistance for those seek grant massachusetts environmental trust ( met ) dam and seawall repair or removal fund division of conservation service ( dc ) guidance & technical assistance guidance & technical assistance business assistance office of geographic information ( massgis ) lead by example ( lbe ) ma smart growth/ smart energy toolkit green business development open space , recreation , and conservation resource area of critical environmental concern ( acec ) ... technical assistance ( czm ) stormsmart coast division of ecological restoration historic landscape preservation program agency and division other select state agency and authority massachusetts conservation district law & regulation law & regulation dam and seawall repair or removal fund final provision for recycling beverage container air quality law & rule commercial fishing regulation lead by example : environmental compliance saltwater fishing regulation site cleanup regulation & standard toxics & hazard regulation & standard statute and regulation waste & recycling law & rule wildlife law & regulation water law & regulation map resource map resource mass ocean resource information system natural heritage gi resource office of geographic information ( massgis ) online mapping strategic plan for spatial data macmapp maps and atlas permit & licensing permit & licensing boat , off-highway vehicle or snowmobile registration boat , ohv or snowmobile registration renewal environmental permit , reporting and form commercial fishing permit recreational saltwater fishing permit mass park permit and rental hunt and fishing license contact an eea agency or division contact an eea agency or division department of agricultural resource department of conservation and recreation department of energy resource department of environmental protection department of fish and game department of public utility office of coastal zone management massachusetts bay national estuary program massachusetts environmental police massachusetts environmental policy act ( mepa ) office of grant and technical assistance office of technical assistance and technology ( ota ) water resource commission hazardous waste site cleanup professional related link related link dcr service and assistance dep service and assistance dpu consumer assistance czm technical assistance massdep public hearing the current page belongs to the main category of agency expand agency department of agricultural resource massachusetts department of agricultural resource mdar staff directory mdar a - z index division of administration division of agricultural conservation & tech assistance division of agricultural market division of animal health division of crop and pest service board and commission department of conservation and recreation department of conservation and recreation massparks service & assistance conservation water resource protection get involve public outreach inside our agency department of energy resource ( doer ) department of energy resource ( doer ) clean city coalition and alternative transportation green community clean energy education for k-12 student energy efficiency energy price & market home heating lead by example ( lbe ) renewable energy department of environmental protection department of environmental protection about massdep news , event & hearing air quality water resource waste & recycling toxics & hazard cleanup of site & spill service center massdep a to z quicklinks department of fish & game massachusetts department of fish & game about fish & game division of marine fishery division of ecological restoration division of fishery & wildlife office of fishing & boating access department of public utility department of public utility ( dpu ) administration division consumer assistance drfa electric power information energy facility siting board executive division natural gas utility hydropower legal division pipeline safety division rate division sit division of the dpu transportation division water distribution eea division eea division massachusetts office of coastal zone management ( czm ) massachusetts bay national estuary program ( massbays ) division of conservation service ( dc ) massachusetts environmental police massachusetts environmental policy act ( mepa ) massachusetts environmental trust ( met ) office of grant and technical assistance office of technical assistance and technology ( ota ) water resource commission hazardous waste site cleanup professional contact an eea agency or division contact an eea agency or division department of agricultural resource department of conservation and recreation department of energy resource department of environmental protection department of fish and game department of public utility office of coastal zone management massachusetts bay national estuary program massachusetts environmental police massachusetts environmental policy act ( mepa ) office of grant and technical assistance office of technical assistance and technology ( ota ) water resource commission hazardous waste site cleanup professional breadcrumb eea home agency massdep water resource drink water faq : boil water order faq : boil water order are extra precaution necessary during a water-borne outbreak ? who can be affect ? why must i boil my water ? how can i make my water safe ? be it necessary to boil all water in the home during an advisory or order ? how should tap water be boil properly ? i have a water treatment device ; do i still need to boil my drinking water ? can i use bottle water ? during a boil order , can i wash my hand use tap water ? during a boil order , can my family take shower or bath use tap water ? during a boil order , can i wash dish use tap water ? can i use my coffee maker , ice machine , water or soda dispenser ? can i give my pet tap water ? what be the symptom of water-borne illness ? what if i drink the water already ? how long will the boil order remain in effect ? what should i do when the boil water advisory or order have be lift ? are extra precaution necessary during a water-borne outbreak ? if the massachusetts department of public health ( dph ) , work with the massdep , determine that there be a water-borne disease outbreak , massdep and massdph will advise the pws and consumer of any other precaution that be necessary . who can be affect ? anyone who ingests contaminate water may become ill . infant , young child , the elderly , and people with severely compromise immune system be more at risk of illness . why must i boil my water ? a boil order have be issue to your water system because either recent testing have show the presence of organism that could cause illness ( e.g . fecal or e. coli bacteria ) , or technical/physical problem in the water system have significantly increase the possibility of bacterial contamination . how can i make my water safe ? boil the water be the best way to ensure that it be free of illness-causing organism . bring water to a rolling boil for a minimum of one minute . when it cool , refrigerate the water in clean container . ( a pinch of salt per quart may improve the rather flat taste of boil water ) . if you do not want to boil your water , you can disinfect it by add 1/8 teaspoon of bleach ( common household bleach contain 5.25 percent sodium hypochlorite ) per gallon of water . do not use bleach contain perfume , dye , or other additive . be it necessary to boil all water in the home during an advisory or order ? during boil water advisory or boil water order , you should boil all water use for drinking , prepare food , beverage , ice cube , wash fruit and vegetable , or brush teeth . severely immuno-compromised individual should always boil their tap water for the purpose note above . infant formulas should be prepare use boil tap water , at all time . in the event that boil be not practical , the pws may recommend an alternative supply know to be safe ( e.g. , bottle water ) or may direct you to disinfect the water use household bleach . it be not necessary to boil tap water use for other household purpose , such a showering , laundry , or bath . adult , teen , and old child can wash , bathe , or shower ; however , they should avoid swallow the water . toddler and infant should be sponge-bathed . how should tap water be boil properly ? water should be place in a heat-resistant container or in an electric kettle without an automatic shut-off and bring to a rolling boil for 1 minute to kill all disease-causing organism . water can also be boil in a microwave oven use a microwave-safe container , but it be advisable to include a glass rod or wooden or plastic stir stick in the container to prevent the formation of superheated water ( water heat above it boiling point , without the formation of steam ) . the water should then be cool and pour into a clean container or refrigerate until you be ready to use it . at elevation over 6,500 foot ( 2,000 meter ) water boil at a slightly low temperature and should therefore be boil for at least two minute to kill all disease-causing organism . i have a water treatment device ; do i still need to boil my drinking water ? if the device be design to improve the taste and odor or chemical quality of the water , such a activate carbon filter , it be still necessary to boil the water . check with the manufacturer if you be not certain . can i use bottle water ? buy bottle water may be a feasible alternative to boiling water . bottled water operation be routinely inspect , and sample be periodically analyze to ensure they meet health standard . what can i do with my tap water ? drink no ice cube no , and exist ice cube should be throw out . see below for information on ice machine . brush teeth no baby 's formula no wash fruit/vegetables no prepare food no coffee , tea , lemonade , etc . no . see below for information on soda dispenser and coffee maker . laundry yes water grass or garden yes , but fruits/vegetables must be wash use boil or bottle water before consumption . wash hand see below shower or bath see below wash dish see below during a boil order , can i wash my hand use tap water ? it be recommend that you wash your hand use soap and either bottled water or boil water . an alcohol-based hand sanitizer may also be use . during a boil order , can my family take shower or bath use tap water ? the risk of bath in tap water be uncertain and so should be avoid particularly by people with open wound or who be immunocompromised . for those people who choose to shower or bathe in the tap water , minimize the time spent in the water and be sure to keep your eye and mouth close . baby and young child should not bathe or shower in tap water because they often swallow some water accidentally . during a boil order , can i wash dish use tap water ? you may use a dishwasher if it have a sanitizing cycle . if it do not have a sanitize cycle , or you be not sure if it do , you may hand wash dish and utensil by follow these step : 1.wash the dish a you normally would . 2.as a final step , immerse the dish for at least one minute in lukewarm water to which a teaspoon of bleach per gallon of water have be add . 3.allow the dish to completely air dry . back to boil water order faq index can i use my coffee maker , ice machine , water or soda dispenser ? none of these device should be use if they be directly connect to your water supply . also , filter be unacceptable for removing bacteria . once you have be notify that the boil order have be lift , these device should be clean and sanitize accord to the operator 's manual for the device . can i give my pet tap water ? although pet be not normally affect by the same disease a human , caution suggest give pet boil or bottle water . what be the symptom of water-borne illness ? disease symptom may include diarrhea , cramp , nausea and possible jaundice and associate headache and fatigue . symptom may appear a early a a few hour to several day after infection and may last more than two week . these symptom , however , be not just associate with disease-causing organism in drink water ; they may also be cause by a number of other factor . if you be ill with these symptom , contact your health care provider . what if i drink the water already ? there be nothing you can do about the exposure you have already receive . if you become ill , contact your health care provider . follow the above recommendation about use your water until you be tell the water be safe again . how long will the boil order remain in effect ? each boil order situation be different , make it impossible to predict how long the boil order will remain in effect . it will not be lift until testing show that the water meet public health standard . boil water advisory or boil water order be lift by the massdep when the water be consider safe and no longer pose a threat to public health . what should i do when the boil water advisory or order have be lift ? the massdep and pws will provide specific instruction . consumer should flush water pipe within the home . when flush it be important to carefully follow the instruction provide . some type of water treatment device may need to be disinfect and flush to remove any contaminate water before be use . depending on the type of water treatment device , the device may need to be replace . check with the manufacturer for detail . a note about e. coli bacteria : e. coli be a sub-group of the fecal coliform bacteria group . there be many strain of e. coli , most of which be harmless , but some strain can cause illness . e. coli outbreaks receive much medium coverage . most outbreaks have be relate to food contamination ( not water ) cause by a specific strain of e. coli know a e. coli o157 : h7 . when a drinking water sample be report a `` e. coli positive '' , it do not mean that this specific strain be present and in fact , it be probably not present . however , it do indicate recent fecal contamination . boiling or treat contaminate drink water with a disinfectant destroys all form of e. coli , include o157 : h7 . complementary content drink water public health order database of public-health order issue by massdep over the past calendar year . updated within 24 hour for all public health order issue during normal business hour . order issue on holiday or weekend be update within 24 hour of the next business day . for more information about a current order , check your community 's website or contact your local water department . consumer information on boil order fact sheet , frequently-asked question , and general guideline on what do when a boil water order have be issue for your community . also provide be link to your town 's website . 2015 commonwealth of massachusetts . mass.gov be a register service mark of the commonwealth of massachusetts . eea site policy contact eea about eea escape key will cancel and close this dialog window . close this box tool name : baynote , inc . recommendation the information below summarizes privacy policy term relate to content recommendation on mass.gov and be excerpt from the full mass.gov privacy policy . purpose : display relevant content recommendation base on the site usage pattern of all user of mass.gov . if personalization be enable ( the default set ) , your personal site usage pattern today and on prior visit to mass.gov will be display to you and will also be a factor in determining personalize relevant recommendation for you . data collected : a random anonymous unique identifier be assign and track for each user of the website . this identifier be send to our vendor , baynote , when you view a page , open a document or click a link on mass.gov . our vendor then analyze the specific content that be view and provide content recommendation to similar content that you may find useful . a full description of what data baynote collect and how it use this data be available at http : //www.baynote.com/baynote-services-privacy-policy/ . please note that the tool use persistent cooky . these cooky will be mass.gov domain cooky and not baynote domain cooky . the cooky will store information relate to a user mass.gov web site usage , include the url and title of site recently visit and the random anonymous unique identifier assign to the user . in general , and a describe in more detail in baynotes service privacy policy link to above , baynote only use the personalized information it gather to provide recommendation service and display past usage for mass.gov user and will not share this information with any third party , include advertiser . the information collect will not affect content you may see on site unaffiliated with mass.gov . express opt out : if personalization of recommendation base on the content you view be not desire , or you do not wish to display a list of recently view mass.gov page , you may turn personalization off . you can do this by using either the switch locate below in this privacy policy or an identical switch locate directly above the content recommendation and recently view content box display on the mass.gov site . once you turn off personalization , your content recommendation will be base on the overall traffic pattern of all user of mass.gov and they will not specifically take into account your own personal usage pattern . if you turn off personalization , information collect by this tool that be associate with your content usage will be delete from your cooky , and no further information about your content usage will be send to our vendor . disable personalization will affect both content recommendation and recently view page link . if you turn off personalization , this off set will persist a you browse mass.gov and during any future session . the opt- 