Green tax 'to increase energy bill by a third by 2020 ' - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Friday 06 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Household bill Green tax 'to increase energy bill by a third by 2020' Green tax will push up the average family energy bill by almost a third to 1,900 by 2020 , accord to research . Green charge be use to fund wind and hydropower project Photo : EPA By Andrew Trotman , and Andrew Oxlade 6:00AM BST 04 Jul 2013 Follow Comments The Taxpayers Alliance predict that green charge and tax will comprise 620 of a typical UK household electrcity and gas bill by the end of the decade . Green charge , which be use to fund wind and hydropower project , and VAT currently make up 11pc of gas bill , or 91 of an average 830 statement . They account for 16pc of electricity charge , equivalent to 100 of the 630 average bill . However , Liberum Capital analyst expect green policy to push power cost up 29pc by the end of the decade . This mean the average electricity bill hit 812 , of which 285 would be green tax and VAT . The Taxpayers Alliance believe gas bill will jump to 1,070 , make the total average bill almost 1,900 . The Government say green expenditure will be offset by consumer saving . The Taxpayers Alliance also launch an `` Energy Swindle '' campaign `` urge the Government to cut energy tax that be add record amount to family and business energy bill '' . Related Articles 1.8m lifetime cost of run a home 05 Jul 2013 Five way to save money on your water usage 04 Jul 2013 EST : Five way to save money on energy bill 29 Jun 2013 Overfilling the kettle 'wastes 68m a year' 04 Jul 2013 Green deal explain 27 Jun 2013 Shell 's 10pc fall be unwarranted 04 Jul 2013 It call on the Government to cut `` unsustainable '' subsidy for `` expensive '' source of energy such a wind turbine and to scrap the carbon price floor for the EU Emissions Trading System and to stop blocking `` new affordable energy source '' like British shale gas and efficient modern coal power plant . Matthew Sinclair , chief executive of the Taxpayers Alliance , say : `` Families and business be struggle with their electricity and gas bill . Politicians should be cut energy tax to ease that burden . Instead they be add to them on an enormous scale to pay for fat subsidy that support expensive energy source like wind turbine and solar panel . `` People who be already find it hard to pay their bill will not be able to cope with the big increase in price need to meet draconian target for the energy sector . We can not allow more family to suffer needlessly and more job to be drive overseas thanks to high price here in Britain . It be time to stop the energy swindle . '' It have set up the website energyswindle.org which also allow consumer to calculate how much of their gas and elecitricity bill be make up of tax . The Department for Energy and Climate Change say it be the global gas price , not green subsidy , that have be primarily push up energy bill , account for 60pc of the increase in bill between 2010 and 2012 . It say Britian need to invest in `` home grown alternative '' to protect bill payer from price volatility . A report publish last month by Consumer Futures , a statutory organisation set up to represent consumer interest in regulate market , warn that the cost of funding subisidies would fall hard on those most reliant on electricity rather than gas . `` The Hardest Hit `` analysis also warn the Government it estimate of saving from encourage consumer to use more energy efficient product and appliance be `` unduly optimistic '' . money @ telegraph.co.uk Could you save by switching energy supplier ? Telegraph Switching Service Telegraph Digital Switching Telegraph Energy Switching Find the best broadband , TV and home phone deal for you See the best gas and electricity deal and switch online Compare now Compare now Household bill Finance News by Sector Energy Personal Finance Business Latest News In Household bill The device quietly run up your energy bill How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb The legal way to avoid pay the TV licence fee Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? Compare energy price Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Cheapest Gas & Electricity Deals Advertisement More from the web Loading Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Best of Australia Australias top 10 wildlife encounter View Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge View Money Transfers Is this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast green tax 'to increase energy bill by a third by 2020 ' - telegraph accessibility link skip to article skip to navigation advertisement telegraph.co.uk search - enhance by opentext friday 06 march 2015 home video news world sport finance comment culture travel life woman fashion luxury tech car company comment personal finance isas economy market property enterprise deal investor isas invest pension saving interest rate fund mortgage credit card expat money video special report home finance personal finance household bill green tax 'to increase energy bill by a third by 2020' green tax will push up the average family energy bill by almost a third to 1,900 by 2020 , accord to research . green charge be use to fund wind and hydropower project photo : epa by andrew trotman , and andrew oxlade 6:00am bst 04 jul 2013 follow comment the taxpayer alliance predict that green charge and tax will comprise 620 of a typical uk household electrcity and gas bill by the end of the decade . green charge , which be use to fund wind and hydropower project , and vat currently make up 11pc of gas bill , or 91 of an average 830 statement . they account for 16pc of electricity charge , equivalent to 100 of the 630 average bill . however , liberum capital analyst expect green policy to push power cost up 29pc by the end of the decade . this mean the average electricity bill hit 812 , of which 285 would be green tax and vat . the taxpayer alliance believe gas bill will jump to 1,070 , make the total average bill almost 1,900 . the government say green expenditure will be offset by consumer saving . the taxpayer alliance also launch an `` energy swindle '' campaign `` urge the government to cut energy tax that be add record amount to family and business energy bill '' . related article 1.8m lifetime cost of run a home 05 jul 2013 five way to save money on your water usage 04 jul 2013 est : five way to save money on energy bill 29 jun 2013 overfill the kettle 'wastes 68m a year' 04 jul 2013 green deal explain 27 jun 2013 shell 's 10pc fall be unwarranted 04 jul 2013 it call on the government to cut `` unsustainable '' subsidy for `` expensive '' source of energy such a wind turbine and to scrap the carbon price floor for the eu emission trading system and to stop blocking `` new affordable energy source '' like british shale gas and efficient modern coal power plant . matthew sinclair , chief executive of the taxpayer alliance , say : `` family and business be struggle with their electricity and gas bill . politician should be cut energy tax to ease that burden . instead they be add to them on an enormous scale to pay for fat subsidy that support expensive energy source like wind turbine and solar panel . `` people who be already find it hard to pay their bill will not be able to cope with the big increase in price need to meet draconian target for the energy sector . we can not allow more family to suffer needlessly and more job to be drive overseas thanks to high price here in britain . it be time to stop the energy swindle . '' it have set up the website energyswindle.org which also allow consumer to calculate how much of their gas and elecitricity bill be make up of tax . the department for energy and climate change say it be the global gas price , not green subsidy , that have be primarily push up energy bill , account for 60pc of the increase in bill between 2010 and 2012 . it say britian need to invest in `` home grown alternative '' to protect bill payer from price volatility . a report publish last month by consumer future , a statutory organisation set up to represent consumer interest in regulate market , warn that the cost of funding subisidies would fall hard on those most reliant on electricity rather than gas . `` the hardest hit `` analysis also warn the government it estimate of saving from encourage consumer to use more energy efficient product and appliance be `` unduly optimistic '' . money @ telegraph.co.uk could you save by switching energy supplier ? telegraph switching service telegraph digital switching telegraph energy switching find the best broadband , tv and home phone deal for you see the best gas and electricity deal and switch online compare now compare now household bill finance news by sector energy personal finance business late news in household bill the device quietly run up your energy bill how to save '240 a year ' with led lightbulb the legal way to avoid pay the tv licence fee can i save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? compare energy price read more personal finance news young briton aspire to financial independence by age 23 nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that comment how i book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel consumer affair editor dan hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website skyscanner comment martin lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage the moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home comment green deal : beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' comment mapped : the best place to live in england and wale find out how desirable the area you live in be . the telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic comment 1.5pc cash isa now pay 10 monthly bonus hsbc be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash isa , which pay 1.5pc comment i 'm a first-time buyer . should i wait for the new discounted starter home ? aspire homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the government scheme comment first-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket if house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property comment do i need a pension when i 've get five buy-to-let property ? christine osborne have two property in bulgaria . should she sell ? will her web business provide for her retirement ? comment one of britain 's best fund picker name isas for first timer gary potter , one of britain big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying comment advertisement how we moderate telegraphuk please enable javascript to view the comment power by disqus . blog comment power by disqus advertisement cheapest gas & electricity deal advertisement more from the web load advertisement more from the telegraph load sponsored feature best of australia australia top 10 wildlife encounter view driven by adventure watch the brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge view money transfer be this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? view back to top home finance financial crisis debt crisis live market bank and finance city diary economics transport medium and telecom energy retail news personal finance your business invest saving student finance job job search company china business money deal money transfer comment alex find an ifa contact u privacy and cooky advertise fantasy football ticket announcement reader print follow u apps epaper expat promotion subscriber syndication copyright of telegraph medium group limited 2015 term and condition today 's news archive style book weather forecast 