Energy firm tell customer they be to get a smart meter for free - but they be suppose to do so anyway under EU rule | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Energy firm woo customer with promise of a free smart meter - which they should n't have to pay for anyway By Money Mail Published : 11:51 EST , 5 March 2014 | Updated : 20:45 EST , 5 March 2014 26 View comment Energy firm be woo customer by promising to give them smart meter for free even though they be suppose to do so anyway . Smart meter give real-time information on a home energy use and cost . Under EU rule , they will be roll out to most household in Britain over the next six year . Families will face high bill to cover the introduction of the device but there be no upfront charge . Families will face high bill to cover the introduction of smart meter However , power firm First Utility be send out email to customer tell them they will get a smart meter for free when they sign up to one of it fixed-rate deal . More ... Figures show just how rise energy bill have ravage household budget over the last decade Energy bill : Is it time to switch and where be the best fix rate deal ? Fix your bill : how to cut your everyday cost and keep save money all year round See if you could cut your energy bill by switching provider : Check the best bu tariff A spokesman say the email be to let it customer know they can get Smart Meters faster than with other firm , because it be at the forefront of roll out the technology . IS IT TIME TO SWITCH ? Energy price tariff be in a constant merry-go-round with supplier constantly battle to pinch customer - you - from each other . Shrewd consumer can take advantage of this by doing exactly that - move deal every six month to a year to ensure they be on THE cheap deal . Even move every other year will save you significant amount . Suppliers offer their cheap rate via online tariff so if you 're ready to switch , it will certainly pay to do so . If you be one of the million of people who have NEVER switch ( i.e . stuck with your original supplier ) , then you will DEFINITELY save a big chunk of cash , possibly a much a 300 a year . Prices be different all over the country and the cheap supplier for you will depend where you live . You only need to be interested in the tariff that be go to be cheap where you live , so do your own comparison to find the best price . For full detail of how to switch your provider and where to find the best deal check out This be Money 's guide By Amy Andrew Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 26 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . Add your comment Enter your comment By posting your comment you agree to our house rule . Submit Comment Clear More top story Enter search term : Search All Articles Share price Portfolio Newsletters Guides Savings rate Deals Calculators 8 WAYS TO SLASH YOUR BILLS Home insurance Electricity & gas Car insurance Breakdown insurance Mortgages Travel insurance Credit card Loans DO N'T MISS A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule If you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . Top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? Record peak cause uncertainty . Thousands of Britons lure by Cyprus property dream stung by Swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight The salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... But now saver be ask : Where be our miss pension million ? You 've hear the Footsie 's hit a record high . But what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! Jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise Buyers enjoy rock-bottom rate . The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place . I 've be bill 320 TWICE for my PPI claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ASK TONY . Is child trust fund misery about to end ? New rule allow switch to more flexible Junior Isas come into effect ? Yorkshire BS launch lead cash Isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . The best new car for 2015 From the Jaguar XE , to the MX-5 and the first ever right-hand drive Mustang If I want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? And will I earn more ? MORE IN BILLS Broadband & phone News , tip and advice Household bill Advice on payment Money save idea Look after your penny Cheaper energy bill Are you pay too much ? Compare broadband Check supplier in your area Cheaper home insurance Save money , compare now BILLS : DO N'T MISS How to unlock a cheap deal for your mobile phone - and it IS legal Trapped in an expensive contract ? Why do it cost twice a much to phone France and Spain on my BT landline a call Russia and Brazil ? BT be introduce new call charge 'My mum 's look after at home - rather than in a home ' : How to take care now to meet the cost of care late Avios overhaul : Why you 'll now earn few air mile for your holiday if you fly economy What will the change will mean for you ? How to get a cheap smartphone : The essential guide to get a new phone without break the bank RACHEL RICKARD STRAUS : We ca n't act surprise that comparison site make a mint from u switch ... ... Snoop Dogg do n't work for free Price comparison website boss under attack from MPs for not show customer the best deal Bosses haul in front of the MPs . Do n't let the exit fee put you off switch energy deal : Even with a 50 levy , the potential saving be 'eye-popping' 'This time I 'm use the net for a divorce , not lawyer ' : Breaking up ? It do n't have to break the bank Do the energy giant owe you cash ? Households owe an average of 50 - but many could be due hundred Nation 's top 25 money-saving tip reveal Scrapping the tumble dryer and never grocery shopping on an empty stomach ... Fix your bill : How to cut your everyday cost and keep save money all year round Energy bill : Is it worth switch and which be the best deal ? LATEST ON HOUSEHOLD Bills Departing Ovo Energy customer to save 60 a small supplier scrap exit fee on those want to switch Households get stab at 70m cash pile for energy-saving home improvement - but late chunk of Green Deal fund will be go in day Scottish Power ban from make sale call for 12 day after it fail to right complaint despite Ombudsman order How to beat the cold caller : Tips to fight phone pest that be drive you mad Exposed : Copycat passport website bos who threaten customer with court - and the bill that soar from 117 to 700 Consumers dupe into switching energy tariff by 'misleading ' price comparison site should get compensation , MPs claim Is there a windfall wait for you ? What the Heir Hunters can teach you about track down an unclaimed inheritance When a roof rack could wreck your insurance - and other small print lurk in your car and home cover 'Our energy bill go through the roof after our son be bear ' : Find the energy ... and switch your deal NOW Four in court on fraud charge over alleged copycat Government websites MORE HEADLINES Find cheap insurance now Home insurance Travel insurance Car insurance Breakdown cover TOP CALCULATORS This be Money 's calculator and tool All our calculator in one place . See how they could help you Historic inflation : how the value of money have change The effect of inflation since 1900 and what past price mean today True cost mortgage tool - rate AND fee Compare the cost of rival fix and tracker rate mortgage Mortgage affordability : How much you can borrow Find out how much you can afford to borrow and the difference between repayment and interest-only Monthly or lump sum saving calculator How much a regular monthly saving scheme could make or a lump sum could be worth . SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u energy firm tell customer they be to get a smart meter for free - but they be suppose to do so anyway under eu rule | this be money money home market save & bank invest bill car holiday card & loan pension mortgage & home expert forum my profile logout login show ad energy firm woo customer with promise of a free smart meter - which they should n't have to pay for anyway by money mail published : 11:51 est , 5 march 2014 | updated : 20:45 est , 5 march 2014 26 view comment energy firm be woo customer by promising to give them smart meter for free even though they be suppose to do so anyway . smart meter give real-time information on a home energy use and cost . under eu rule , they will be roll out to most household in britain over the next six year . family will face high bill to cover the introduction of the device but there be no upfront charge . family will face high bill to cover the introduction of smart meter however , power firm first utility be send out email to customer tell them they will get a smart meter for free when they sign up to one of it fixed-rate deal . more ... figure show just how rise energy bill have ravage household budget over the last decade energy bill : be it time to switch and where be the best fix rate deal ? fix your bill : how to cut your everyday cost and keep save money all year round see if you could cut your energy bill by switching provider : check the best bu tariff a spokesman say the email be to let it customer know they can get smart meter faster than with other firm , because it be at the forefront of roll out the technology . be it time to switch ? energy price tariff be in a constant merry-go-round with supplier constantly battle to pinch customer - you - from each other . shrewd consumer can take advantage of this by doing exactly that - move deal every six month to a year to ensure they be on the cheap deal . even move every other year will save you significant amount . supplier offer their cheap rate via online tariff so if you 're ready to switch , it will certainly pay to do so . if you be one of the million of people who have never switch ( i.e . stuck with your original supplier ) , then you will definitely save a big chunk of cash , possibly a much a 300 a year . price be different all over the country and the cheap supplier for you will depend where you live . you only need to be interested in the tariff that be go to be cheap where you live , so do your own comparison to find the best price . for full detail of how to switch your provider and where to find the best deal check out this be money 's guide by amy andrew share or comment on this article world 's most expensive city reveal : singapore top the ... will you get the full state pension ? some 6.1m people could ... the best city in the world to work in ? vienna come top in ... pound now buy more than 1.38 a ecb 's bond-buying plan ... face up to my big nightmare : airasia ' s boss tony ... go at top speed : britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : nationwide unveils ... simon lambert : warren buffett on tesco , share be safer ... do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? why your ... a million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... how to be a diy landlord : what you need to know about go ... osborne sell uk 's 40 % stake in eurostar to overseas ... most read money previous next comment ( 26 ) share what you think newest oldest best rat worst rat view all the comment below have not be moderate . view all the view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of mailonline . add your comment enter your comment by posting your comment you agree to our house rule . submit comment clear more top story enter search term : search all article share price portfolio newsletter guide saving rate deal calculator 8 way to slash your bill home insurance electricity & gas car insurance breakdown insurance mortgage travel insurance credit card loan do n't miss a million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule if you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? record peak cause uncertainty . thousand of briton lure by cyprus property dream stung by swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight the salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... but now saver be ask : where be our miss pension million ? you 've hear the footsie 's hit a record high . but what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise buyer enjoy rock-bottom rate . the best city in the world to work in ? vienna come top in quality of living league - but london languish at 40th place . i 've be bill 320 twice for my ppi claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ask tony . be child trust fund misery about to end ? new rule allow switch to more flexible junior isas come into effect ? yorkshire b launch lead cash isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . the best new car for 2015 from the jaguar xe , to the mx-5 and the first ever right-hand drive mustang if i want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? and will i earn more ? more in bill broadband & phone news , tip and advice household bill advice on payment money save idea look after your penny cheaper energy bill are you pay too much ? compare broadband check supplier in your area cheaper home insurance save money , compare now bill : do n't miss how to unlock a cheap deal for your mobile phone - and it be legal trapped in an expensive contract ? why do it cost twice a much to phone france and spain on my bt landline a call russia and brazil ? bt be introduce new call charge 'my mum 's look after at home - rather than in a home ' : how to take care now to meet the cost of care late avios overhaul : why you 'll now earn few air mile for your holiday if you fly economy what will the change will mean for you ? how to get a cheap smartphone : the essential guide to get a new phone without break the bank rachel rickard straus : we ca n't act surprise that comparison site make a mint from u switch ... ... snoop dogg do n't work for free price comparison website boss under attack from mp for not show customer the best deal boss haul in front of the mp . do n't let the exit fee put you off switch energy deal : even with a 50 levy , the potential saving be 'eye-popping' 'this time i 'm use the net for a divorce , not lawyer ' : break up ? it do n't have to break the bank do the energy giant owe you cash ? household owe an average of 50 - but many could be due hundred nation 's top 25 money-saving tip reveal scrap the tumble dryer and never grocery shopping on an empty stomach ... fix your bill : how to cut your everyday cost and keep save money all year round energy bill : be it worth switch and which be the best deal ? late on household bill depart ovo energy customer to save 60 a small supplier scrap exit fee on those want to switch household get stab at 70m cash pile for energy-saving home improvement - but late chunk of green deal fund will be go in day scottish power ban from make sale call for 12 day after it fail to right complaint despite ombudsman order how to beat the cold caller : tip to fight phone pest that be drive you mad expose : copycat passport website bos who threaten customer with court - and the bill that soar from 117 to 700 consumer dupe into switching energy tariff by 'misleading ' price comparison site should get compensation , mp claim be there a windfall wait for you ? what the heir hunter can teach you about track down an unclaimed inheritance when a roof rack could wreck your insurance - and other small print lurk in your car and home cover 'our energy bill go through the roof after our son be bear ' : find the energy ... and switch your deal now four in court on fraud charge over alleged copycat government websites more headline find cheap insurance now home insurance travel insurance car insurance breakdown cover top calculator this be money 's calculator and tool all our calculator in one place . see how they could help you historic inflation : how the value of money have change the effect of inflation since 1900 and what past price mean today true cost mortgage tool - rate and fee compare the cost of rival fix and tracker rate mortgage mortgage affordability : how much you can borrow find out how much you can afford to borrow and the difference between repayment and interest-only monthly or lump sum saving calculator how much a regular monthly saving scheme could make or a lump sum could be worth . share picture copy link to paste in your message find out more ... find out more ... money market save & bank invest bill car holiday card & loan pension mortgage & home expert forum sitemap archive video archive mobile apps r text-based site reader print our paper top of page daily mail mail on sunday this be network even standard this be money metro jobsite mail travel zoopla.co.uk prime location this be money be part of the daily mail , mail on sunday & metro medium group associated newspaper ltd contact u advertise with u term privacy policy & cooky ninemsn news sport finance lifestyle entertainment video travel more site about u career at ninemsn advertise with u 