Electricity Abroad : Adapters and Voltage Converters Demystified | Fodor's Follow Us Sign In Sign In Remember Me Forgot password ? Or Sign in use : Register Now Sign Up Free Fodor 's Newsletters Subscribe today for travel inspiration , tip , and special offer . Enter your E-mail Zipcode Passport : Your weekly travel wrap-up Today 's Departure : Your daily dose of travel inspiration How we use your email Fodor 's may use your e-mail address to send you relevant information on site update , account change , and offer . For more information about your privacy and protection , please review our full Privacy Policy . Destinations USA Europe Africa & The Middle East Asia Australia & The Pacific Canada Caribbean Mexico & Central America South America Cruises Cruise Lines Cruise Ship Reviews News & Features Store Guidebooks City Guide Apps Travel Phrase Apps Forums Africa & the Middle East Asia Australia & the Pacific Canada Caribbean Europe Mexico & Central America South America United States Air Travel Cruises Travel Tips & Trip Ideas Forums Help Trip Ideas Home > News & Features > Travel Tips > Electricity Abroad : Adapters and Voltage Converters Demystified Electricity Abroad : Adapters and Voltage Converters Demystified Posted by Susan MacCallum-Whitcomb on March 22 , 2010 at 12:09:07 PM EDT | Post a Comment Fodors.com Contributor Not long ago I be vacation overseas with a friend when , in preparation for a big night out , she flick on her curling iron ... promptly fry the appliance and her hair in the process . It be n't a pretty sight , although I could n't actually see that until the light ( which have be knock out in the entire hotel ) come back on . Attempting to use any electrical device with an incompatible foreign system can lead to a similarly hair-raising situation . Here 's what you need to know to power up properly . Determine the right plug shape for your trip If you be vacation across the Atlantic or Pacific , the first thing you 'll likely notice be that plug your appliance in be impossible because it simply wo n't fit into the socket . The reason be that the two-parallel-prong plug which be standard issue in North America ( plus swath of Central and South America ) be seldom use anywhere else . The receptacle design to receive it might have room for three round prong or perhaps three fat flat one that jut off at odd angle . Indeed there be endless configuration of plug across the world . The good news be that an adapter ( basically a connector that you piggyback your own plug into before insert both in the outlet ) offer a quick , affordable solution to the dilemma . You can find a useful comparison chart of adapter at electricaloutlet.org . Determine the standard voltage for your trip Just because your plug fit do n't mean your appliance can handle the type of power now course through it cord . You see , in addition to difference in plug shape , there be difference in voltage . Whereas our electrical system be base on 110 volt , 220 volt be the norm abroad . ( FYI , the frequency be different too : the cycle be 60Hz here and 50Hz most other place ) . This mean you 'll also need a converter to temper the excess power if you want to keep your appliance from burn out . There be basically two type : one for `` hot stuff '' ( think hairdryers or iron ) that draw up to 2000 watt , and a second transformer-style one for non-heating gizmo ( such a electric razor or battery rechargers ) that draw up to 40 or 50 watt . Get rid of excess gadget One way to reduce the amount of hassle from gadget and electricity be to simply leave unessential appliance home . Nobody really need an electric toothbrush ; moreover , hairdryers and , to a lesser extent , iron , be already widely available in hotel . Another option be to go for battery-operated model or plug-in with dual-voltage capacity . Regarding the latter , you might already unwittingly own device that run on either 110 or 220 volt . An increase number do , among them small appliance with a manual switch and newer-model laptop that convert automatically ( the computer power cord should have a label say `` Input 100V-240V / 50Hz or 60Hz '' ) . In that case , a plug adapter alone suffices . Buy your adaptor and converter at home Buying adapter and converter once you 're on the road be a pricey proposition . So load up before departing in a specialty store or department store luggage section . Prefer shopping online ? Magellan's and International Electrical Supplies both boast an impressive array of product plus they have easy-to-decipher chart , complete with picture , that explain precisely what be need where . The best choice for traveler visit multiple country be a compact kit with assorted adapter and a two-in-one converter . If you 're tot a computer ( even one that do n't require a converter ) it 's wise to purchase a surge protector specifically design for high voltage a wellparticularly if your destination have an unreliable electrical supply . Posted in Travel Tips RSS Feed Featured Series Travel Tastemakers Travel Tech What to Pack Categories Airlines Arts & Culture Cruises Deals Events Family Hotels News Outdoors Photos Restaurants Rewards Programs Shopping Spas Style Travel Tips Trip Ideas Wine & Cocktails New at Fodor's Contact Us Have feedback or suggestion ? View the blog contact information . Member Comments ( 5 ) Post a Comment arfinfall on Apr 18 , 10 at 01:37 PM I agree with chicagogrl33 . Just back from 2 week in London and Oxford for a combination business/vacation trip . Did I need a curling iron ? YES ! English weather create nothing but bad hair day for me ... and I do have to look decent for 1/2 of my day there . My hotel in London have a hairdryer and clothing iron . The college dorm I stay in for the business part of the meeting do n't . The great advice I be give be to buy those appliance there . I get mine at a Boothe 's drugstore in London . The curling iron be right at 10 pound ( $ 15 ) and much cheaper than buying an adapter and converter which I would have do to use my US appliance . chicagogrl33 on Mar 23 , 10 at 02:05 PM I 've purchase a curling iron and flat iron while travel overseas a it become a hassle of bring my own , from the USA . It 's much easy and really the only country , so far , I have to use the adapter for , be in the UK . spaarne on Mar 23 , 10 at 10:25 AM This be a good introduction to the subject of foreign electricity . See more detail on my site at http : //www.enjoy-europe.com/hte/chap11/electric.htm . I disagree with saacnmama on buying a replacement cord over there . Plug adapter be easy to find in the USA , either at a local store or on the internet . Overseas it be rare to find anything with which to adapt your plug to their outlet , and expensive when you do find it . saacnmama on Mar 23 , 10 at 09:29 AM The important point that plug and energy be two different thing be well- made here , and it be correct that cell phone , laptop , etc can use various power source if they have the right plug . I disagree that it 's best to stock up before you go . If your device be sell in your destination you should be able to get areplacement cord there for much less expense or hassle Dukey on Mar 23 , 10 at 09:29 AM Nobody NEEDS a curling iron either I suppose by why not have one ? Good article but IMO the best bet be to NOT have ANY converter at all and rather take either dual voltage model or battery-operated one but just my opinion . Advertisement Fodor 's Top News & Features Ten Things NOT to Do in Italy 20 Ultimate Things to Do in New York City 15 Things Not to Do in Paris Fodor 's Approved : 15 Most Stylish Women 's Shoes for Travel 7 Best Warm Weather Trips Without a Passport 10 Best Ramen Shops in the U.S . World 's Craziest Bar Concepts A Fool-Proof Amalfi Coast Itinerary 10 Best All-Inclusive Resorts in the Caribbean Advertisement Featured Travel Deals $ 259 -- 4-Star Grand Cayman Beach Resort , Save 30 % The Westin Grand Cayman Seven Mile Beach Resort & Spa $ 1429 & up -- Costa Rica 4-Star All-Inclusive Trip w/Air Apple Vacations $ 30 & up -- Las Vegas Hotel Sale incl . Extras LasVegas.com $ 129 & up -- 4-Star Charlotte Hotel incl . Weekends , 35 % Off The Westin Charlotte $ 2999 -- Luxe 8-Night Italy , Croatia & Greece Cruise w/Air Oceania Cruises $ 139 & up -- 4-Star Sheraton Times Square Hotel , 30 % Off Sheraton New York Times Square View all travel deal * Some tax , fee additional Follow Us About Us Our Team Press Room FAQs Contact Us Advertising Terms of Use Privacy Policy Site Map View Full Site Fodor 's Travel A Penguin Random House Company Use of this site indicate your consent to the Terms of Use . Copyright 2015 Fodor 's Travel , a division of Random House LLC global.penguinrandomhouse.com Sign In X Remember Me Forgot password ? Or Sign in use : Register Now electricity abroad : adapter and voltage converter demystified | fodor's follow u sign in sign in remember me forgot password ? or sign in use : register now sign up free fodor 's newsletter subscribe today for travel inspiration , tip , and special offer . enter your e-mail zipcode passport : your weekly travel wrap-up today 's departure : your daily dose of travel inspiration how we use your email fodor 's may use your e-mail address to send you relevant information on site update , account change , and offer . for more information about your privacy and protection , please review our full privacy policy . destination usa europe africa & the middle east asia australia & the pacific canada caribbean mexico & central america south america cruise cruise line cruise ship review news & feature store guidebook city guide apps travel phrase apps forum africa & the middle east asia australia & the pacific canada caribbean europe mexico & central america south america united state air travel cruise travel tip & trip idea forum help trip idea home > news & feature > travel tip > electricity abroad : adapter and voltage converter demystified electricity abroad : adapter and voltage converter demystified posted by susan maccallum-whitcomb on march 22 , 2010 at 12:09:07 pm edt | post a comment fodors.com contributor not long ago i be vacation overseas with a friend when , in preparation for a big night out , she flick on her curling iron ... promptly fry the appliance and her hair in the process . it be n't a pretty sight , although i could n't actually see that until the light ( which have be knock out in the entire hotel ) come back on . attempt to use any electrical device with an incompatible foreign system can lead to a similarly hair-raising situation . here 's what you need to know to power up properly . determine the right plug shape for your trip if you be vacation across the atlantic or pacific , the first thing you 'll likely notice be that plug your appliance in be impossible because it simply wo n't fit into the socket . the reason be that the two-parallel-prong plug which be standard issue in north america ( plus swath of central and south america ) be seldom use anywhere else . the receptacle design to receive it might have room for three round prong or perhaps three fat flat one that jut off at odd angle . indeed there be endless configuration of plug across the world . the good news be that an adapter ( basically a connector that you piggyback your own plug into before insert both in the outlet ) offer a quick , affordable solution to the dilemma . you can find a useful comparison chart of adapter at electricaloutlet.org . determine the standard voltage for your trip just because your plug fit do n't mean your appliance can handle the type of power now course through it cord . you see , in addition to difference in plug shape , there be difference in voltage . whereas our electrical system be base on 110 volt , 220 volt be the norm abroad . ( fyi , the frequency be different too : the cycle be 60hz here and 50hz most other place ) . this mean you 'll also need a converter to temper the excess power if you want to keep your appliance from burn out . there be basically two type : one for `` hot stuff '' ( think hairdryers or iron ) that draw up to 2000 watt , and a second transformer-style one for non-heating gizmo ( such a electric razor or battery rechargers ) that draw up to 40 or 50 watt . get rid of excess gadget one way to reduce the amount of hassle from gadget and electricity be to simply leave unessential appliance home . nobody really need an electric toothbrush ; moreover , hairdryers and , to a lesser extent , iron , be already widely available in hotel . another option be to go for battery-operated model or plug-in with dual-voltage capacity . regard the latter , you might already unwittingly own device that run on either 110 or 220 volt . an increase number do , among them small appliance with a manual switch and newer-model laptop that convert automatically ( the computer power cord should have a label say `` input 100v-240v / 50hz or 60hz '' ) . in that case , a plug adapter alone suffices . buy your adaptor and converter at home buy adapter and converter once you 're on the road be a pricey proposition . so load up before departing in a specialty store or department store luggage section . prefer shopping online ? magellan's and international electrical supply both boast an impressive array of product plus they have easy-to-decipher chart , complete with picture , that explain precisely what be need where . the best choice for traveler visit multiple country be a compact kit with assorted adapter and a two-in-one converter . if you 're tot a computer ( even one that do n't require a converter ) it 's wise to purchase a surge protector specifically design for high voltage a wellparticularly if your destination have an unreliable electrical supply . posted in travel tip r fee featured series travel tastemakers travel tech what to pack category airline art & culture cruise deal event family hotel news outdoors photo restaurant reward program shop spa style travel tip trip idea wine & cocktail new at fodor's contact u have feedback or suggestion ? view the blog contact information . member comment ( 5 ) post a comment arfinfall on apr 18 , 10 at 01:37 pm i agree with chicagogrl33 . just back from 2 week in london and oxford for a combination business/vacation trip . did i need a curling iron ? yes ! english weather create nothing but bad hair day for me ... and i do have to look decent for 1/2 of my day there . my hotel in london have a hairdryer and clothing iron . the college dorm i stay in for the business part of the meeting do n't . the great advice i be give be to buy those appliance there . i get mine at a boothe 's drugstore in london . the curling iron be right at 10 pound ( $ 15 ) and much cheaper than buying an adapter and converter which i would have do to use my u appliance . chicagogrl33 on mar 23 , 10 at 02:05 pm i 've purchase a curling iron and flat iron while travel overseas a it become a hassle of bring my own , from the usa . it 's much easy and really the only country , so far , i have to use the adapter for , be in the uk . spaarne on mar 23 , 10 at 10:25 am this be a good introduction to the subject of foreign electricity . see more detail on my site at http : //www.enjoy-europe.com/hte/chap11/electric.htm . i disagree with saacnmama on buying a replacement cord over there . plug adapter be easy to find in the usa , either at a local store or on the internet . overseas it be rare to find anything with which to adapt your plug to their outlet , and expensive when you do find it . saacnmama on mar 23 , 10 at 09:29 am the important point that plug and energy be two different thing be well- made here , and it be correct that cell phone , laptop , etc can use various power source if they have the right plug . i disagree that it 's best to stock up before you go . if your device be sell in your destination you should be able to get areplacement cord there for much less expense or hassle dukey on mar 23 , 10 at 09:29 am nobody need a curling iron either i suppose by why not have one ? good article but imo the best bet be to not have any converter at all and rather take either dual voltage model or battery-operated one but just my opinion . advertisement fodor 's top news & feature ten thing not to do in italy 20 ultimate thing to do in new york city 15 thing not to do in paris fodor 's approved : 15 most stylish woman 's shoe for travel 7 best warm weather trip without a passport 10 best ramen shop in the u.s . world 's craziest bar concept a fool-proof amalfi coast itinerary 10 best all-inclusive resort in the caribbean advertisement featured travel deal $ 259 -- 4-star grand cayman beach resort , save 30 % the westin grand cayman seven mile beach resort & spa $ 1429 & up -- costa rica 4-star all-inclusive trip w/air apple vacation $ 30 & up -- la vega hotel sale incl . extra lasvegas.com $ 129 & up -- 4-star charlotte hotel incl . weekend , 35 % off the westin charlotte $ 2999 -- luxe 8-night italy , croatia & greece cruise w/air oceania cruise $ 139 & up -- 4-star sheraton time square hotel , 30 % off sheraton new york time square view all travel deal * some tax , fee additional follow u about u our team press room faq contact u advertise term of use privacy policy site map view full site fodor 's travel a penguin random house company use of this site indicate your consent to the term of use . copyright 2015 fodor 's travel , a division of random house llc global.penguinrandomhouse.com sign in x remember me forgot password ? or sign in use : register now 