Bay City smart meter rollout leaf resident with plumb bill , concern and question | MLive.com MLive Michigan Ann Arbor Bay City Detroit Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Muskegon Saginaw All Michigan Menu Home Set Your Edition Michigan News Sports High School Sports Weather Business Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Entertainment Food & Dining Lifestyle Opinion Photos & Videos Become a Member Classifieds Obituaries Find & Save Local Businesses Place an Ad Follow Us Subscribe Back to Main Menu Automotive Crime Databases Education Environment Health Lottery Obituaries Politics & Elections U.S. & World Weather Regions News subscription Back to Main Menu Lions Pistons Red Wings Tigers Broncos Cardinals Chippewas Eagles Lakers Spartans Wolverines Small Colleges More Sports Back to Main Menu Forecasts from Mark Torregrossa Michigan Weather News Radar & More Back to Main Menu Automotive Statewide Ann Arbor Jackson & Lansing Metro Detroit Mid-Michigan West Michigan More Business Back to Main Menu Dining Out Event Listings Post an Event Michigan 's Best Movie Listings Movies & Reviews Music & Reviews Comics Celebrities Puzzles TV Listings Back to Main Menu Dining Out Cooking & Recipes Healthy Eating My Recipe Box Michigan 's Best Beer Drinks Wine Back to Main Menu Celebrations Health & Fitness Home & Garden Travel Weddings Back to Main Menu Ken Braun Susan Demas Tim Skubick By Region Back to Main Menu Ann Arbor Photos Bay City Photos Detroit Photos Flint Photos Grand Rapids Photos Jackson Photos Kalamazoo Photos Lansing Photos Muskegon Photos Saginaw Photos Videos Back to Main Menu Manage your Subscriptions My Michigan Membership Benefits eReplica Newsletters Our Newspapers RSS Feeds Back to Main Menu High School Sports Home Boys Basketball Girls Basketball Boys Ice Hockey Wrestling Boys Swimming Boys Bowling Girls Bowling Competitive Cheer Girls Gymnastics Boys Skiing Girls Skiing Girls Ice Hockey Off Season Sports Back to High School Sports Menu Football Girls Volleyball Boys Soccer Girls Soccer Baseball Softball Boys Track and Field Girls Track and Field Boys Tennis Girls Tennis Boys Golf Girls Golf Boys Lacrosse Girls Lacrosse Girls Swimming Boys Cross Country Girls Cross Country Field Hockey Boys Water Polo Girls Water Polo Boys Rowing Girls Rowing Equestrian Boys Rugby Boys Gymnastics Back to Main Menu Visit our Facebook Page Follow u on Twitter Visit u on Google Plus Back to Main Menu The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News Ann Arbor Bay City Detroit Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Muskegon Saginaw All Michigan Back to Main Menu Close Customize Your Weather Set Your Location ( Enter City and State or Zip Code ) Congratulations ! Your weather be set to . You can change the location at any time . AccuWeather.com Quick Look Change your current location View Full Weather Report Search Search Search MLive Account Sign In Close Sign in to MLive Remember me Forgot your username and password ? Do n't have an account ? Register now for free , or sign in with any of these service : You be sign in a Edit Public Profile Sign Out Favorite Schools expand Favorite Teams close Subscribe The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News Michigan Change Region comment Bay City smart meter rollout leaf resident with plumb bill , concern and question Bay City replacing residential water meter Mark Niernberg point out the water meter at his Bay City home Thursday , July 10 . Nierenberg opt to not sign a waiver to have a third-party vendor replace his water meter , fear that his water system might break . Bay City contract Utility Partners of America to replace about 35,000 water meter across the city with new , `` smart meter . '' If a meter need to be completely replace , the company be have resident sign a waiver say the company be n't responsible for any damage . ( Yfat Yossifor | The Bay City Times ) Print Andrew Dodson | adodson @ mlive.com By Andrew Dodson | adodson @ mlive.com The Bay City Times Email the author | Follow on Twitter on July 14 , 2014 at 7:15 AM , update September 09 , 2014 at 5:30 PM View/Post Comments BAY CITY , MI Bay City official say the switch to electronic `` smart meter '' for the city 's electric and water utility make operation more efficient and provide more usage transparency to resident . But a the $ 6.8 million program continue to roll out , it have cause headache and expensive plumbing bill for some resident . Terry Basmadjian , who life on Bay City 's West Side , say she pay $ 160 to have a plumber replace a valve that broke when her meter be swap out last week . Mark Niernberg , fear he would have to pay a similar , or high , bill , opt against switching his meter out for now , a the installer require resident to sign a waiver say the company be n't liable for any damage during the install . `` I 'm all for the new meter , but if they switch this out , I 'll likely have to hire a plumber to fix it , '' Niernberg say . `` If I have a plumber come out and update my water line , and then the city come in to install the meter , and something break , I would need to pay to have a plumber come out again and fix it . I think this whole notion that the homeowner be responsible be ridiculous . '' City official be now look into these issue to ensure the estimate 15,000 water meter can be instal by year 's end without costing customer hundred of dollar . `` As of now , I 've only hear of one formal complaint , '' say Bay City Manager Rick Finn . `` But I 've be tell there be some concern about the process . We need to look into this more before we make any decision on if we need to make some change . '' A Utility Partners of America truck park on McKinley Street include an attachment that say `` Contractor for Bay City . '' UPA have be switch out water meter to new smart meter for Bay City resident since April . ( Andrew Dodson | The Bay City Times ) Problems with the install When Terry Basmadjian sign the waiver , she do n't realize it include a sentence that say she would be liable for any damage that could occur during the installation process . `` I just think they need my permission to start the work , '' she say . Basmadjianis the step-mother to Bay City Commissioner Kerice Basmadjian , 7th Ward . Terry Basmadjianrealized the water valve be break when the installer try to turn water back on after swapping the meter . It be likely the first time the valve have be turn off since move into the residence , she say . `` The installer then tell me his company be n't responsible because I sign the waiver , '' Basmadjian say . After a $ 160 visit from Bay City-based Doug 's Plumbing , her valve be replace . Bob Dion , the city 's water distribution meter supervisor , say the city have receive about a dozen call per day from resident who experience a brokenvalve a a result of the smart meter install . `` These be old house , and many of them have n't exercise their valve ever , '' he say . `` They 've never be turn off , which be why they break easily . '' As a result , a resident end up hire a plumber that can cost up to hundred of dollar . Doug Trerice , owner of Doug 's Plumbing , say his company have replace about 100 valve since the water meter swap start . Trerice say old valve be make of brass , which be more susceptible to rust than modern valve , which be make of a strong type of alloy with Kaplan coat . `` We 've definitely be busy during this switch , '' he say . Trerice recommends resident exercise their valve at least once per year . `` When you turn them off , though , do it slowly , '' he say . `` When you turn it back on , also do it very slowly . '' Upcoming solution ? Terry Kilburn , the city 's water and sewer supervisor , say some resident have pay `` several '' hundred of dollar to plumber to have their valve repair , a a result of the smart meter rollout , prompt the city to act swiftly and find a solution . He say the city be look into create a program that would give resident a list of local plumber to replace the valve . Under the propose plan , plumber would submit a bid for the cost of a valve replacement , Kilburn say , and become an approve vendor of the city . `` Residents would be more comfortable if we can say , here 's a plumber and here 's how much it 's go to cost , instead of tell them to just call a plumber , '' Kilburn say . The resident would still pay for the valve replacement , Kilburn say . `` This be something that 's at the top of the list to act on , '' he say . `` It 's very important . '' Any program or ordinance change would require the approval of the Bay City Commission . A Bay City residential water meter . ( Times file ) Smart meter history and process The Bay City commission approve the upgrade to the smart meter system in October 2012 . The move mean few visit from meter reader and more detail to consumer about their usage . Using a radio transmitter , the meter sendinformation daily about homeowner ' electrical and water consumption to small tower place around the city , which bounce the data to city server . The system can alert city utility official earlier than the exist system of irregularusage , such a a major leak underground that could cost resident big dollar . `` If someone be out of town and their pipe burst , we 'll receive an alert that show a spike in usage , allow u to respond and turn off the water before it become a big problem , '' say Dion . `` If that happen today , we 'd rely on resident call u say that there 's water come out of the basement windows of their neighbor 's house . '' The $ 6.8 million upgrade be pay for use money from a 2008 bond sale and electric and water rate , say George Martini , the city 's fiscal service director . The bond be expect to be pay off by the end of next year . The Bay City Commission recently approve a rate increase of $ 3 to the customer service charge and 11-cents on the usage unit of 100 cubic foot of water . There be four city employee swap out meter for business and industrial property , but most resident will see a Utility Partners of America truck park outside their home . UPA , base in Greenville , S.C. , be hire base on recommendation from Badger Meter , the Wisconsin-based company that manufacture the smart meter . Dion say city employee could n't handle the sheer volume of replacing all water meter , prompt the city to hire a third-party . Electric meter swap start in February and be more than 80 percent complete . Water meter swap , which start in April , be about 20 percent complete . `` We 're a little behind , but still think we can finish up the work by the end of the year , '' say Dion . Once electric meter be swap , those worker will transition to water meter , say Dion . Representatives from an out-of-state call center be call resident to schedule one-hour appointment windows to install the new meter and radio transmitter . Houses with updated meter only require the installation of the handheld-sized transmitter , which take about 20 minute . Installation of a new meter can take up to an hour and require turn water off in the household for about a half hour , say Dion . `` The big hold up be try to get people at their house when an installer can be there , '' Dion say . `` We need an adult at the house in order to do the install . '' Job concern Despite some of the benefit of smart meter , some resident be question why the city need them . `` Do we really need them ? '' ask Bob Philip , who have his meter recently replace . `` That and how many job be they eliminate ? The city do n't need more job loss . '' According to Finn , the city will eliminate four of it five meter reader position , beginning next fiscal year , which start July 1 , 2015 . All five meter reader be budget to stay on the payroll for the current fiscal year , which start July 1 . Once the entire system be online , the position would be phase out if an employee opt to leave during the current fiscal year , say Martini . It cost about $ 85,500 per meter reader with salary and fringe benefit , say Martini . Meter reader , who check water and electric meter , earn between $ 17.35 to $ 18.98 per hour and receive medical benefit from the city . The city will keep one meter reader on to deal with any glitch with the new smart meter system , say Finn . Savings from the four eliminate position work out to about $ 342,000 for next fiscal year . Martini say the city would work to find other position in the water or electric department for impact employee . Other concern It 's not just break water valve that be rub resident the wrong way during the transition to smart meter . Ray Armstrong say his meter have make a loud click noise , but city official have tell him it would be replace . Others say they 're concern about possible health issue due to the transmitter that sends off usage data to the city 's server . `` I 've have resident call me say the transmitter be a real concern for them , '' say Commissioner Elizabeth Peters , 2 nd Ward . Kim Haken , manager of Columbus Laundromat , which recently have to pay a $ 15,000 water bill after the city instal an incorrect meter reader and an ongoing clerical error , say city official tell her a new meter could increase her water bill . Kilburn say that could be the case , but the new meter could also work in favor of the customer . `` If their meter be run slow before , it would benefit the city , '' he say . `` But if it be run fast , it would benefit the customer . '' Bay City Commission President , Lori Dufresne . Bay City Commission President Lori Dufresne , 4 th Ward , say she have have a resident complain about the meter be too loud and others about the waiver process a part of installation . `` I guess it 's one of those thing that we need more discussion on in order to smooth it out and make it feel easy for the resident , '' she say . Personally , Dufresne , who work in Midland , say it be difficult for her to schedule a time to coordinate with a scheduler to install the meter . `` It 's a challenge to find a convenient time , '' she say . Several resident interview acknowledged the professionalism of the installers from UPA . `` We have a young kid come to the house and he be very open with me , '' Nierenberg say . `` When I tell him I be n't go to sign the waiver because I do n't want to deal with a break valve , he even agree with me and tell me that I should get a plumber to look at it first . '' Finn say opt out of the smart meter program wo n't be encourage , but it be possible . Residents who decide against the new technology , however , would have to pay hefty fee for a meter reader to come to their residence each month . `` When we show the cost of a monthly reading to a resident , it become obvious pretty quickly that it 's not in their best fiscal interest , '' he say . View/Post Comments Related Stories Academic State Champs : Michigan 's Top 25 school Schools rank individually for first time Where do your school rank ? See Top 25 school district View all coverage Most Read Get the late update Subscribe to our newsletter Like MLive on Facebook Follow MLive on Twitter Active Discussions Best of MLive.com Ice and sun make stun scene MLive announces Michigan 's Best Coffee Shop Miles-long garage sale plan for May 2 About Us MLive Media Group Our Team Advertise Contact Us Jobs at MLive Subscriptions Newspaper | Digital Editions | eNewsletters The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News MLive Sections News Business Sports High School Sports Entertainment Living Opinion Obituaries Jobs Autos Real Estate Apartment Rentals Classifieds Local Deals Local Businesses Business Resource Center Your Regional News Pages Ann Arbor Bay City Detroit Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Muskegon Saginaw Mobile Mobile Apps | Tablet Apps More on MLive Forums Photos Video Weather Post a job Post a free classify ad Sell your car Sell/Rent your home Apartments and Rentals Site Map Follow Us Twitter | Facebook | Google+ Registration on or use of this site constitute acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy 2015 MLive Media Group All right reserve ( About Us ) . The material on this site may not be reproduce , distribute , transmit , cache or otherwise use , except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site . Contact interactivity man bay city smart meter rollout leaf resident with plumb bill , concern and question | mlive.com mlive michigan ann arbor bay city detroit flint grand rapid jackson kalamazoo lansing muskegon saginaw all michigan menu home set your edition michigan news sport high school sport weather business job auto real estate rental entertainment food & dining lifestyle opinion photo & video become a member classified obituary find & save local business place an ad follow u subscribe back to main menu automotive crime database education environment health lottery obituary politics & election u.s. & world weather region news subscription back to main menu lion piston red wing tiger bronco cardinal chippewa eagle lakers spartan wolverine small college more sport back to main menu forecast from mark torregrossa michigan weather news radar & more back to main menu automotive statewide ann arbor jackson & lansing metro detroit mid-michigan west michigan more business back to main menu din out event listing post an event michigan 's best movie listing movie & review music & review comic celebrity puzzle tv listing back to main menu din out cook & recipe healthy eating my recipe box michigan 's best beer drink wine back to main menu celebration health & fitness home & garden travel wedding back to main menu ken braun susan demas tim skubick by region back to main menu ann arbor photo bay city photo detroit photo flint photo grand rapid photo jackson photo kalamazoo photo lansing photo muskegon photo saginaw photo video back to main menu manage your subscription my michigan membership benefit ereplica newsletter our newspaper r feed back to main menu high school sport home boy basketball girl basketball boy ice hockey wrestle boy swim boy bowl girl bowl competitive cheer girl gymnastics boy ski girl ski girl ice hockey off season sport back to high school sport menu football girl volleyball boy soccer girl soccer baseball softball boy track and field girl track and field boy tennis girl tennis boy golf girl golf boy lacrosse girl lacrosse girl swim boy cross country girl cross country field hockey boy water polo girl water polo boy row girl row equestrian boy rugby boy gymnastics back to main menu visit our facebook page follow u on twitter visit u on google plus back to main menu the ann arbor news the bay city time the flint journal the grand rapid press jackson citizen patriot kalamazoo gazette muskegon chronicle the saginaw news ann arbor bay city detroit flint grand rapid jackson kalamazoo lansing muskegon saginaw all michigan back to main menu close customize your weather set your location ( enter city and state or zip code ) congratulation ! your weather be set to . you can change the location at any time . accuweather.com quick look change your current location view full weather report search search search mlive account sign in close sign in to mlive remember me forgot your username and password ? do n't have an account ? register now for free , or sign in with any of these service : you be sign in a edit public profile sign out favorite school expand favorite team close subscribe the ann arbor news the bay city time the flint journal the grand rapid press jackson citizen patriot kalamazoo gazette muskegon chronicle the saginaw news michigan change region comment bay city smart meter rollout leaf resident with plumb bill , concern and question bay city replacing residential water meter mark niernberg point out the water meter at his bay city home thursday , july 10 . nierenberg opt to not sign a waiver to have a third-party vendor replace his water meter , fear that his water system might break . bay city contract utility partner of america to replace about 35,000 water meter across the city with new , `` smart meter . '' if a meter need to be completely replace , the company be have resident sign a waiver say the company be n't responsible for any damage . ( yfat yossifor | the bay city time ) print andrew dodson | adodson @ mlive.com by andrew dodson | adodson @ mlive.com the bay city time email the author | follow on twitter on july 14 , 2014 at 7:15 am , update september 09 , 2014 at 5:30 pm view/post comment bay city , mi bay city official say the switch to electronic `` smart meter '' for the city 's electric and water utility make operation more efficient and provide more usage transparency to resident . but a the $ 6.8 million program continue to roll out , it have cause headache and expensive plumbing bill for some resident . terry basmadjian , who life on bay city 's west side , say she pay $ 160 to have a plumber replace a valve that broke when her meter be swap out last week . mark niernberg , fear he would have to pay a similar , or high , bill , opt against switching his meter out for now , a the installer require resident to sign a waiver say the company be n't liable for any damage during the install . `` i 'm all for the new meter , but if they switch this out , i 'll likely have to hire a plumber to fix it , '' niernberg say . `` if i have a plumber come out and update my water line , and then the city come in to install the meter , and something break , i would need to pay to have a plumber come out again and fix it . i think this whole notion that the homeowner be responsible be ridiculous . '' city official be now look into these issue to ensure the estimate 15,000 water meter can be instal by year 's end without costing customer hundred of dollar . `` a of now , i 've only hear of one formal complaint , '' say bay city manager rick finn . `` but i 've be tell there be some concern about the process . we need to look into this more before we make any decision on if we need to make some change . '' a utility partner of america truck park on mckinley street include an attachment that say `` contractor for bay city . '' upa have be switch out water meter to new smart meter for bay city resident since april . ( andrew dodson | the bay city time ) problem with the install when terry basmadjian sign the waiver , she do n't realize it include a sentence that say she would be liable for any damage that could occur during the installation process . `` i just think they need my permission to start the work , '' she say . basmadjianis the step-mother to bay city commissioner kerice basmadjian , 7th ward . terry basmadjianrealized the water valve be break when the installer try to turn water back on after swapping the meter . it be likely the first time the valve have be turn off since move into the residence , she say . `` the installer then tell me his company be n't responsible because i sign the waiver , '' basmadjian say . after a $ 160 visit from bay city-based doug 's plumbing , her valve be replace . bob dion , the city 's water distribution meter supervisor , say the city have receive about a dozen call per day from resident who experience a brokenvalve a a result of the smart meter install . `` these be old house , and many of them have n't exercise their valve ever , '' he say . `` they 've never be turn off , which be why they break easily . '' a a result , a resident end up hire a plumber that can cost up to hundred of dollar . doug trerice , owner of doug 's plumbing , say his company have replace about 100 valve since the water meter swap start . trerice say old valve be make of brass , which be more susceptible to rust than modern valve , which be make of a strong type of alloy with kaplan coat . `` we 've definitely be busy during this switch , '' he say . trerice recommends resident exercise their valve at least once per year . `` when you turn them off , though , do it slowly , '' he say . `` when you turn it back on , also do it very slowly . '' upcoming solution ? terry kilburn , the city 's water and sewer supervisor , say some resident have pay `` several '' hundred of dollar to plumber to have their valve repair , a a result of the smart meter rollout , prompt the city to act swiftly and find a solution . he say the city be look into create a program that would give resident a list of local plumber to replace the valve . under the propose plan , plumber would submit a bid for the cost of a valve replacement , kilburn say , and become an approve vendor of the city . `` resident would be more comfortable if we can say , here 's a plumber and here 's how much it 's go to cost , instead of tell them to just call a plumber , '' kilburn say . the resident would still pay for the valve replacement , kilburn say . `` this be something that 's at the top of the list to act on , '' he say . `` it 's very important . '' any program or ordinance change would require the approval of the bay city commission . a bay city residential water meter . ( time file ) smart meter history and process the bay city commission approve the upgrade to the smart meter system in october 2012 . the move mean few visit from meter reader and more detail to consumer about their usage . use a radio transmitter , the meter sendinformation daily about homeowner ' electrical and water consumption to small tower place around the city , which bounce the data to city server . the system can alert city utility official earlier than the exist system of irregularusage , such a a major leak underground that could cost resident big dollar . `` if someone be out of town and their pipe burst , we 'll receive an alert that show a spike in usage , allow u to respond and turn off the water before it become a big problem , '' say dion . `` if that happen today , we 'd rely on resident call u say that there 's water come out of the basement windows of their neighbor 's house . '' the $ 6.8 million upgrade be pay for use money from a 2008 bond sale and electric and water rate , say george martini , the city 's fiscal service director . the bond be expect to be pay off by the end of next year . the bay city commission recently approve a rate increase of $ 3 to the customer service charge and 11-cents on the usage unit of 100 cubic foot of water . there be four city employee swap out meter for business and industrial property , but most resident will see a utility partner of america truck park outside their home . upa , base in greenville , s.c. , be hire base on recommendation from badger meter , the wisconsin-based company that manufacture the smart meter . dion say city employee could n't handle the sheer volume of replacing all water meter , prompt the city to hire a third-party . electric meter swap start in february and be more than 80 percent complete . water meter swap , which start in april , be about 20 percent complete . `` we 're a little behind , but still think we can finish up the work by the end of the year , '' say dion . once electric meter be swap , those worker will transition to water meter , say dion . representative from an out-of-state call center be call resident to schedule one-hour appointment windows to install the new meter and radio transmitter . house with updated meter only require the installation of the handheld-sized transmitter , which take about 20 minute . installation of a new meter can take up to an hour and require turn water off in the household for about a half hour , say dion . `` the big hold up be try to get people at their house when an installer can be there , '' dion say . `` we need an adult at the house in order to do the install . '' job concern despite some of the benefit of smart meter , some resident be question why the city need them . `` do we really need them ? '' ask bob philip , who have his meter recently replace . `` that and how many job be they eliminate ? the city do n't need more job loss . '' accord to finn , the city will eliminate four of it five meter reader position , beginning next fiscal year , which start july 1 , 2015 . all five meter reader be budget to stay on the payroll for the current fiscal year , which start july 1 . once the entire system be online , the position would be phase out if an employee opt to leave during the current fiscal year , say martini . it cost about $ 85,500 per meter reader with salary and fringe benefit , say martini . meter reader , who check water and electric meter , earn between $ 17.35 to $ 18.98 per hour and receive medical benefit from the city . the city will keep one meter reader on to deal with any glitch with the new smart meter system , say finn . saving from the four eliminate position work out to about $ 342,000 for next fiscal year . martini say the city would work to find other position in the water or electric department for impact employee . other concern it 's not just break water valve that be rub resident the wrong way during the transition to smart meter . ray armstrong say his meter have make a loud click noise , but city official have tell him it would be replace . others say they 're concern about possible health issue due to the transmitter that sends off usage data to the city 's server . `` i 've have resident call me say the transmitter be a real concern for them , '' say commissioner elizabeth peter , 2 nd ward . kim haken , manager of columbus laundromat , which recently have to pay a $ 15,000 water bill after the city instal an incorrect meter reader and an ongoing clerical error , say city official tell her a new meter could increase her water bill . kilburn say that could be the case , but the new meter could also work in favor of the customer . `` if their meter be run slow before , it would benefit the city , '' he say . `` but if it be run fast , it would benefit the customer . '' bay city commission president , lori dufresne . bay city commission president lori dufresne , 4 th ward , say she have have a resident complain about the meter be too loud and others about the waiver process a part of installation . `` i guess it 's one of those thing that we need more discussion on in order to smooth it out and make it feel easy for the resident , '' she say . personally , dufresne , who work in midland , say it be difficult for her to schedule a time to coordinate with a scheduler to install the meter . `` it 's a challenge to find a convenient time , '' she say . several resident interview acknowledged the professionalism of the installers from upa . `` we have a young kid come to the house and he be very open with me , '' nierenberg say . `` when i tell him i be n't go to sign the waiver because i do n't want to deal with a break valve , he even agree with me and tell me that i should get a plumber to look at it first . '' finn say opt out of the smart meter program wo n't be encourage , but it be possible . resident who decide against the new technology , however , would have to pay hefty fee for a meter reader to come to their residence each month . `` when we show the cost of a monthly reading to a resident , it become obvious pretty quickly that it 's not in their best fiscal interest , '' he say . view/post comment related story academic state champ : michigan 's top 25 school school rank individually for first time where do your school rank ? see top 25 school district view all coverage most read get the late update subscribe to our newsletter like mlive on facebook follow mlive on twitter active discussion best of mlive.com ice and sun make stun scene mlive announces michigan 's best coffee shop miles-long garage sale plan for may 2 about u mlive medium group our team advertise contact u job at mlive subscription newspaper | digital edition | enewsletters the ann arbor news the bay city time the flint journal the grand rapid press jackson citizen patriot kalamazoo gazette muskegon chronicle the saginaw news mlive section news business sport high school sport entertainment live opinion obituary job auto real estate apartment rental classified local deal local business business resource center your regional news page ann arbor bay city detroit flint grand rapid jackson kalamazoo lansing muskegon saginaw mobile mobile apps | tablet apps more on mlive forum photo video weather post a job post a free classify ad sell your car sell/rent your home apartment and rental site map follow u twitter | facebook | google+ registration on or use of this site constitute acceptance of our user agreement and privacy policy 2015 mlive medium group all right reserve ( about u ) . the material on this site may not be reproduce , distribute , transmit , cache or otherwise use , except with the prior written permission of mlive medium group community rule apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site . contact interactivity man 