Should your restaurant use gas or electric ? Commercial Kitchen Equipment Supplies Design Restaurant Equipment Bar Equipment Espaol View Cart My Account Blog Email : Password : Forgot or need to reset your password ? PIN # : Popular Tags tre36d2 gf60-6r24rr ev60-ss6fp24g208 136-5s Find Us On Should your restaurant use gas or electric ? Cooking Equipment Blog 8/13/2012 6:55:58 AM A restaurant can become an expensive investment . Not only do owner have to worry about the staff , location , atmosphere and menu , but they must also take into consideration the most important feature of all , the restaurant equipment . Having trust and reliable restaurant equipment be crucial to have a well-maintained kitchen . When it come to choosing a range for your cooking need , the issue of use gas vs. electric be sure to create debate . Here be some thing to keep in mind for both type of range , accord to Top Ten Reviews . Electric Ranges be universally cheap than their gas counterpart to purchase and install a they require power outlet rather than a natural gas source . This could potentially save on overhead cost and allow for fund to be allocate for other type of restaurant equipment need for the menu . Additionally , burner and surface be easy to clean , especially on smooth-top electric range which can also double a an extra counter when clean and not in use . Electric range also allow for more even heat distribution for oven bake and provide ideal condition for roast . However , electric range can be subject to power outage due to inclement weather or too much voltage and they be much slow to cool down after use . Gas range offer much more precision while cook a the chef can adjust the level of heat , and the flame allow for a more even distribution of heat for stovetop cook throughout any type of pot or pan . Natural gas be inexpensive , clean burning and can change temperature rapidly allow a variety of cuisine and dish to be cook interchangeably without disruption . However , gas range be somewhat more expensive to purchase and install , and a they use natural gas a the source of cook heat , it require much more attention and safety precaution . Also , due to the nature of gas heat , it offer less than ideal baking condition in the oven a it allow for more moisture to be contain rather than a sustainable dry heat . Overall , both type of range be ideal for different situation and can add a depth of variety to the kitchen . However , it be important to research trust and reliable restaurant equipment and see what would work best for your menu . Related Products : Vulcan EV60-SS6FP24G208 Restaurant Range Restaurant Range , 60 '' , electric , ( 6 ) 2kw French hot plate 9 1/2 '' round French plat w/infinite control , 24 '' W Griddle polish steel plate , thermostat control , ( 2 ) standard oven w/ ( 1 ) rack each , stainless steel front , side , single deck high shelf & 6 '' leg , 28.8kw , 208v INCLUDES MANUFACTURER 'S ONE YEAR PARTS AND LABOR WARRANTY Garland US Range GF60-6R24RR GF Starfire Pro Series Restaurant Range GF Starfire Pro Series Restaurant Range , gas , 60'W , ( 6 ) 33,000 BTU open burner , with cast iron top & ring grate , flame failure , 24 ' raise griddle/broiler ( std on right ) , ( 2 ) standard oven w/3 position rack guide w/oven rack , stainless steel front , side , plate rail and 10 ' low profile back guard , 6 ' s/s leg with adjustable foot , 265,000 BTU , CSA , NSF INCLUDES MANUFACTURER 'S ONE YEAR PARTS AND LABOR WARRANTY Toastmaster TRE36D2 Heavy-Duty Range Heavy-Duty Range , 36 '' , electric , ( 2 ) 12 '' x 24 '' hotplates , ( 2 ) round hotplate , standard depth , deck oven base , 1 oven rack , stainless steel exterior , 6 '' NSF leg , hatchable , 21 kw Have a question ? Call u at Customer service by email info @ ckitchen.com See also : Policies and Disclaimers Free Freight Feedback & Comments Design Services Energy Star Rebates & Incentives Shipping Policy Kitchen Equipment Lease Links Installation/Service Copyright , All Rights Reserved Espaol Ckitchen Outlet About Us Privacy Contact Us Sitemap Subscribe to Our RSS should your restaurant use gas or electric ? commercial kitchen equipment supply design restaurant equipment bar equipment espaol view cart my account blog email : password : forgot or need to reset your password ? pin # : popular tag tre36d2 gf60-6r24rr ev60-ss6fp24g208 136-5s find u on should your restaurant use gas or electric ? cook equipment blog 8/13/2012 6:55:58 am a restaurant can become an expensive investment . not only do owner have to worry about the staff , location , atmosphere and menu , but they must also take into consideration the most important feature of all , the restaurant equipment . have trust and reliable restaurant equipment be crucial to have a well-maintained kitchen . when it come to choosing a range for your cooking need , the issue of use gas vs. electric be sure to create debate . here be some thing to keep in mind for both type of range , accord to top ten review . electric range be universally cheap than their gas counterpart to purchase and install a they require power outlet rather than a natural gas source . this could potentially save on overhead cost and allow for fund to be allocate for other type of restaurant equipment need for the menu . additionally , burner and surface be easy to clean , especially on smooth-top electric range which can also double a an extra counter when clean and not in use . electric range also allow for more even heat distribution for oven bake and provide ideal condition for roast . however , electric range can be subject to power outage due to inclement weather or too much voltage and they be much slow to cool down after use . gas range offer much more precision while cook a the chef can adjust the level of heat , and the flame allow for a more even distribution of heat for stovetop cook throughout any type of pot or pan . natural gas be inexpensive , clean burning and can change temperature rapidly allow a variety of cuisine and dish to be cook interchangeably without disruption . however , gas range be somewhat more expensive to purchase and install , and a they use natural gas a the source of cook heat , it require much more attention and safety precaution . also , due to the nature of gas heat , it offer less than ideal baking condition in the oven a it allow for more moisture to be contain rather than a sustainable dry heat . overall , both type of range be ideal for different situation and can add a depth of variety to the kitchen . however , it be important to research trust and reliable restaurant equipment and see what would work best for your menu . related product : vulcan ev60-ss6fp24g208 restaurant range restaurant range , 60 '' , electric , ( 6 ) 2kw french hot plate 9 1/2 '' round french plat w/infinite control , 24 '' w griddle polish steel plate , thermostat control , ( 2 ) standard oven w/ ( 1 ) rack each , stainless steel front , side , single deck high shelf & 6 '' leg , 28.8kw , 208v includes manufacturer 's one year part and labor warranty garland u range gf60-6r24rr gf starfire pro series restaurant range gf starfire pro series restaurant range , gas , 60'w , ( 6 ) 33,000 btu open burner , with cast iron top & ring grate , flame failure , 24 ' raise griddle/broiler ( std on right ) , ( 2 ) standard oven w/3 position rack guide w/oven rack , stainless steel front , side , plate rail and 10 ' low profile back guard , 6 ' s/s leg with adjustable foot , 265,000 btu , csa , nsf includes manufacturer 's one year part and labor warranty toastmaster tre36d2 heavy-duty range heavy-duty range , 36 '' , electric , ( 2 ) 12 '' x 24 '' hotplates , ( 2 ) round hotplate , standard depth , deck oven base , 1 oven rack , stainless steel exterior , 6 '' nsf leg , hatchable , 21 kw have a question ? call u at customer service by email info @ ckitchen.com see also : policy and disclaimer free freight feedback & comment design service energy star rebate & incentive ship policy kitchen equipment lease link installation/service copyright , all right reserve espaol ckitchen outlet about u privacy contact u sitemap subscribe to our r 