Individual Emissions - Household Emissions Calculator Assumptions and References | Climate Change | US EPA Jump to main content or area navigation . A-Z Index Advanced Search What be you look for ? Learn the Issues Science & Technology Laws & Regulations About EPA Contact Us Climate Change You be here : EPA Home Climate Change Emissions Individual Emissions - Household Emissions Calculator Assumptions and References Household Emissions Calculator Assumptions and References Your Current Household Emissions Sources Household Vehicles Pounds of carbon dioxide equivalent be calculate base on EPA 's estimate of the greenhouse gas emission from a typical passenger vehicle in the United States . Estimates of the typical value for fuel economy and mile driven per week be from the Federal Highway Administration 's Highway Statistics 2007 Table VM-1 ( PDF ) ( 1 p , 11K ) . Note that EPA 's emission estimate be low than estimate obtain through fueleconomy.gov , because EPA 's estimate be for tailpipe emission only . The fueleconomy.gov site estimate emission over the full fuel lifecycle ( include extraction , processing , and transportation of fuel ) . Electricity Electricity emission factor be categorize by geographic subregion . Source : EPA . eGRID Version 1.1 Aggregation File , eGRID2010 . `` Typical '' annual CO 2 emission be 14,920 pound per household , assume approximately 957 kWh per month . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration 2009 . A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 . Natural Gas Carbon coefficient for natural gas : 117 pound of CO 2 per million BTU , or 0.12 pound per cubic foot of gas . Source : U.S. EPA Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks : 1990-2009 ( EPA 2011 ) . `` Typical '' annual CO 2 emission of 8,049 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 5,583 cubic foot of gas . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration 2009 . A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 . Fuel Oil Carbon coefficient for distillate fuel ( fuel oil ) : 163 pound of CO 2 per million BTU , or 22.61 pound per gallon . Source : U.S. EPA Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks : 1990-2009 ( EPA 2011 ) . `` Typical '' annual CO 2 emission of 16,779 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 62 gallon of oil . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration 2009 . A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 . Propane Carbon coefficient for LPG ( propane ) : 136pounds of CO 2 per million BTU , or 12.43 pound per gallon . Source : U.S. EPA Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks : 1990-2009 ( EPA 2011 ) . `` Typical '' annual CO 2 emission of 5,679 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 38 gallon of propane . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration 2009 . A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 Waste Disposal Estimates of greenhouse gas emission benefit from recycle newspaper , glass , plastic , metal , and magazine be develop use national waste data and life-cycle greenhouse gas emission factor for waste management . Calculations assume that it would be possible for household to recycle 100 percent of all recyclable material generate a waste . For example , if you indicate that you recycle newspaper , this calculator assume that you recycle 100 percent of the newspaper you receive . It be estimate that on average , each person generate 0.025 ton of newspaper , 0.038 ton of glass , 0.015 ton of plastic , 0.011 ton of metal , and 0.005 ton of magazine per year . EPA 's annual Characterization Report be the source of per caput waste generation by material type ( e.g. , newspaper waste generate per person ) . Source : U.S. Environmental Protection Agency , 2010 . Municipal Solid Waste Generation , Recycling , and Disposal in the United States : Facts and Figures for 2009 ( PDF ) ( 198 pp , 2.4MB , About PDF ) . Carbon dioxide equivalent emission associate with household waste management be calculate use the total emission for landfill ( include incineration , landfill gas-to-energy project , oxidation , and flare ) from EPA 's Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks , 1990-2009 and the United States population estimate from EPA 's annual Characterization Report mention above . The emission factor for each material type be develop by EPA and present in the Agency 's report on greenhouse gas emission from waste management and in the online WAste Reduction Model ( WARM ) . These emission factor take into account the full material life cycle ; i.e. , not only emission at the landfill , but also emission and sequestration associate with production , manufacturing , remanufacturing , forest carbon storage due to reduce harvest , etc . The emission factor use for recycling material in this calculator compare greenhouse gas emission from recycle with those attributable to landfilling . This approach enable policy maker to evaluate , on a per-ton basis , the overall difference in greenhouse gas emission between ( 1 ) recycle 1 ton of material and ( 2 ) manufacturing and then manage ( post-consumer ) 1 ton of the same material . Source : U.S. Environmental Protection Agency , 2009 . Solid Waste Management and Greenhouse Gases : A Life-Cycle Assessment of Emissions and Sinks , EPA530-R-06-004 . WARM be available in the Tools section of the Waste section of this Web site . Top of page What You Can Do to Reduce Your Emissions On the Road Emission factor base on EPA 's estimate of the greenhouse gas emission from a typical passenger vehicle in the United States . Cost saving for reduce the number of mile drive be calculate use $ 0.16 cent per mile ( include gas , oil and maintenance ) . Source : Transportation Energy Data Book . Table 10.13 . Average variable cost per mile , 2011 . Properly inflate tire : Assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 3 percent . Keeping your engine properly tune : Assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 4 percent . Source : Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Energy , Fuel Economy Website , 2011 . Perform regular maintenance on your vehicle : Assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 7 percent . Source : Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Energy , Fuel Economy Website , 2011 . Cost saving for purchase a more fuel efficient vehicle be calculate use $ 2.84 per gallon . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration , Petroleum Navigator , 2007U.S . Energy Information Administration , US Retail Gas Prices , 2011 . At Home Cost saving for natural gas consume device assume an average cost of $ 11.21 per thousand cubic foot . Source : Energy Information Administration : US Residential Natural Gas Prices , 2011 . Cost saving for electricity consume device assume average cost per kWh of $ 0.1150 . Source : Energy Information Administration , Annual Energy Outlook Table A8 , 2011 . Cost saving for fuel oil consume device assume an average cost of $ 2.80 per gallon . Source : Energy Information Administration : US Residential Fuel Oil Prices , 2011 . Cost saving for propane consume device assume an average cost of $ 2.59 per gallon . Source : Energy Information Administration : Residential Propane Prices , 2011 . Turning down your heating thermostat : Assumes 3 percent saving in heating energy use for a 1 degree decrease . Source : ENERGY STAR . Life Cycle Cost Estimating Tool for ENERGY STAR Programmable Thermostats , 2008 . Assumes that , nationally , 7 % of annual residential electricity consumption , 62 % of annual natural gas consumption , 61 % of annual propane consumption , and 84 % of annual fuel oil consumption be use for space heating . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration . End-use Consumption of Electricity . US Energy Information Administration : A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 . Total Energy Consumption in U.S . Households by Type of Housing Unit ( Table US3 ) , 2009 ( 4 pp , 51K , About PDF ) and US Energy Information Administration : A Look at Residential Energy Consumption in 2005 . Space-Heating Energy Consumption in U.S . Households by Type of Housing Unit ( Table SH3 ) , 2009 ( PDF ) ( 7 pp , 58K , About PDF ) Turning up thermostat for central air conditioner : Assumes 6 percent saving in cool energy use for a 1 degree increase . Source : ENERGY STAR . Life Cycle Cost Estimating Tool for ENERGY STAR Programmable Thermostats , 2008 . Assumes that nationally , 20 % of annual electricity consumption be use for space cool . Source : U.S. Energy Information Administration . End-use Consumption of Electricity . Total Energy Consumption in U.S . Households by Fuels Used , 2005 ( PDF ) Total Energy Consumption in U.S . Households by Type of Housing Unit , 2005 ( Table US4 ) ( PDF ) ( 4 pp , 51K , About PDF ) and Total Consumption by Energy End Uses , 2005 ( Table US12 ) ( PDF ) ( 4 pp , 50K , http : //www.epa.gov/epahome/pdf.htmlAbout PDF ) Enable sleep feature on your computer and monitor . Assumes ENERGY STAR desktop computer and monitor . Average annual unit computer energy ( sleep feature enable , computer turn off at night ) : 80 kWh ; average annual unit computer energy ( sleep feature not enable , computer turn off at night ) : 152 kWh . Average annual unit monitor energy ( sleep feature enable , monitor turn off at night ) : 44 kWh ; average annual unit monitor energy ( sleep feature not enable , monitor turn off at night ) : 76 kWh . Source : ENERGY STAR . LBNL Home Office Spreadsheet , 2009 . Wash clothe in cold water instead of hot : Assumes average use of 485 kWh per year or 1.07 kWh per load . Source : D & R International product database , 2011 . Use a clothes line or dry rack for 50 % of your laundry , instead of your dryer : Assumes 1,079 kWh of electricity use per year . Source : U.S. Department of Energy . A Consumer 's Guide to Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy , 2007 . Replacing 60 watt incandescent light bulb with 13 watt compact fluorescent : Assumes that light be on for 3 hour per day . Source : ENERGY STAR . Cost Estimate for Energy Star Qualified Light Bulbs , 2011 . Replacing old refrigerator with an ENERGY STAR model : Assumes old model us 794 kWh per year ; ENERGY STAR model use 424 kWh per year . Source : Source : D & R International Historical Data Tables Factbook Appendix from D & R_2-8-11.xlsx . Replacing an old boiler or furnace with an ENERGY STAR model : Assumes 2000 sq ft house ; 300 square foot of glass . Source : EPAs Climate Change Action Plan ( CCAP ) , 2010 . Replacing single-pane window with ENERGY STAR windows : Assumes 2000 square-foot house , 300 square foot of glass . Source : ENERGY STAR . Methodology base on RESFEN 3.1 calculation perform by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory ( LBNL ) , 2005 . Recycling Calculations assume that it would be possible for household to recycle 100 percent of all recyclable material generate a waste . The plastic material type use in the calculator include PET and HDPE , and the metal material type include aluminum and steel can . Basic Information Greenhouse Gas Emissions Science What EPA be Doing What You Can Do blank Overview of Gases Overview Evaluating Policy Options , Costs , and Benefits At Home Newsroom Sources of Emissions Causes of Climate Change Regulatory Initiatives On the Road blank Global Data Indicators of Climate Change Voluntary Programs In the Office Related Links National Data Future Climate Change State , Local , and Tribal Partnerships At School blank Facility Data blank blank blank Glossary Individual Calculator blank blank Climate Connections blank blank Climate Change Impacts and Adapting to Change International Partnerships Clean Energy Students ' Site blank blank blank Climate and Transportation blank blank blank blank Climate and Water blank blank blank blank Climate and Waste blank blank blank blank EPA Climate Science Research Area Navigation Climate Change Home Basic Information Common Questions Greenhouse Gas Emissions Overview of Gases Sources of Emissions Global Data National Data Facility Data Individual Calculator Science Overview Causes of Climate Change Indicators of Climate Change Future Climate Change Multimedia Gallery Impacts & Adaptation Alaska U.S. Islands Southwest Southeast Northeast Northwest Midwest Great Plains International Human Health Ecosystems Forests Transportation Energy Coasts Agriculture and Food Society Water Resources Adaptation Overview Tools for Public Officials Federal and EPA Programs What EPA be Doing Regulatory Initiatives Voluntary Programs Evaluating Policies International Partnerships State , Local , and Tribal Partnerships What You Can Do At Home On the Road At the Office At School Newsroom Glossary Students ' Site News Feeds Podcasts EPA Mobile News by Email Wi individual emission - household emission calculator assumption and reference | climate change | u epa jump to main content or area navigation . a-z index advanced search what be you look for ? learn the issue science & technology law & regulation about epa contact u climate change you be here : epa home climate change emission individual emission - household emission calculator assumption and reference household emission calculator assumption and reference your current household emission source household vehicle pound of carbon dioxide equivalent be calculate base on epa 's estimate of the greenhouse gas emission from a typical passenger vehicle in the united state . estimate of the typical value for fuel economy and mile driven per week be from the federal highway administration 's highway statistic 2007 table vm-1 ( pdf ) ( 1 p , 11k ) . note that epa 's emission estimate be low than estimate obtain through fueleconomy.gov , because epa 's estimate be for tailpipe emission only . the fueleconomy.gov site estimate emission over the full fuel lifecycle ( include extraction , processing , and transportation of fuel ) . electricity electricity emission factor be categorize by geographic subregion . source : epa . egrid version 1.1 aggregation file , egrid2010 . `` typical '' annual co 2 emission be 14,920 pound per household , assume approximately 957 kwh per month . source : u.s. energy information administration 2009 . a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 . natural gas carbon coefficient for natural gas : 117 pound of co 2 per million btu , or 0.12 pound per cubic foot of gas . source : u.s. epa inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emission and sink : 1990-2009 ( epa 2011 ) . `` typical '' annual co 2 emission of 8,049 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 5,583 cubic foot of gas . source : u.s. energy information administration 2009 . a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 . fuel oil carbon coefficient for distillate fuel ( fuel oil ) : 163 pound of co 2 per million btu , or 22.61 pound per gallon . source : u.s. epa inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emission and sink : 1990-2009 ( epa 2011 ) . `` typical '' annual co 2 emission of 16,779 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 62 gallon of oil . source : u.s. energy information administration 2009 . a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 . propane carbon coefficient for lpg ( propane ) : 136pounds of co 2 per million btu , or 12.43 pound per gallon . source : u.s. epa inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emission and sink : 1990-2009 ( epa 2011 ) . `` typical '' annual co 2 emission of 5,679 pound per household base on national average monthly consumption of 38 gallon of propane . source : u.s. energy information administration 2009 . a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 waste disposal estimate of greenhouse gas emission benefit from recycle newspaper , glass , plastic , metal , and magazine be develop use national waste data and life-cycle greenhouse gas emission factor for waste management . calculation assume that it would be possible for household to recycle 100 percent of all recyclable material generate a waste . for example , if you indicate that you recycle newspaper , this calculator assume that you recycle 100 percent of the newspaper you receive . it be estimate that on average , each person generate 0.025 ton of newspaper , 0.038 ton of glass , 0.015 ton of plastic , 0.011 ton of metal , and 0.005 ton of magazine per year . epa 's annual characterization report be the source of per caput waste generation by material type ( e.g. , newspaper waste generate per person ) . source : u.s. environmental protection agency , 2010 . municipal solid waste generation , recycling , and disposal in the united state : fact and figure for 2009 ( pdf ) ( 198 pp , 2.4mb , about pdf ) . carbon dioxide equivalent emission associate with household waste management be calculate use the total emission for landfill ( include incineration , landfill gas-to-energy project , oxidation , and flare ) from epa 's inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emission and sink , 1990-2009 and the united state population estimate from epa 's annual characterization report mention above . the emission factor for each material type be develop by epa and present in the agency 's report on greenhouse gas emission from waste management and in the online waste reduction model ( warm ) . these emission factor take into account the full material life cycle ; i.e. , not only emission at the landfill , but also emission and sequestration associate with production , manufacturing , remanufacturing , forest carbon storage due to reduce harvest , etc . the emission factor use for recycling material in this calculator compare greenhouse gas emission from recycle with those attributable to landfilling . this approach enable policy maker to evaluate , on a per-ton basis , the overall difference in greenhouse gas emission between ( 1 ) recycle 1 ton of material and ( 2 ) manufacturing and then manage ( post-consumer ) 1 ton of the same material . source : u.s. environmental protection agency , 2009 . solid waste management and greenhouse gas : a life-cycle assessment of emission and sink , epa530-r-06-004 . warm be available in the tool section of the waste section of this web site . top of page what you can do to reduce your emission on the road emission factor base on epa 's estimate of the greenhouse gas emission from a typical passenger vehicle in the united state . cost saving for reduce the number of mile drive be calculate use $ 0.16 cent per mile ( include gas , oil and maintenance ) . source : transportation energy data book . table 10.13 . average variable cost per mile , 2011 . properly inflate tire : assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 3 percent . keeping your engine properly tune : assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 4 percent . source : environmental protection agency and department of energy , fuel economy website , 2011 . perform regular maintenance on your vehicle : assumes an increase in fuel efficiency of 7 percent . source : environmental protection agency and department of energy , fuel economy website , 2011 . cost saving for purchase a more fuel efficient vehicle be calculate use $ 2.84 per gallon . source : u.s. energy information administration , petroleum navigator , 2007u.s . energy information administration , u retail gas price , 2011 . at home cost saving for natural gas consume device assume an average cost of $ 11.21 per thousand cubic foot . source : energy information administration : u residential natural gas price , 2011 . cost saving for electricity consume device assume average cost per kwh of $ 0.1150 . source : energy information administration , annual energy outlook table a8 , 2011 . cost saving for fuel oil consume device assume an average cost of $ 2.80 per gallon . source : energy information administration : u residential fuel oil price , 2011 . cost saving for propane consume device assume an average cost of $ 2.59 per gallon . source : energy information administration : residential propane price , 2011 . turn down your heating thermostat : assumes 3 percent saving in heating energy use for a 1 degree decrease . source : energy star . life cycle cost estimating tool for energy star programmable thermostat , 2008 . assumes that , nationally , 7 % of annual residential electricity consumption , 62 % of annual natural gas consumption , 61 % of annual propane consumption , and 84 % of annual fuel oil consumption be use for space heating . source : u.s. energy information administration . end-use consumption of electricity . u energy information administration : a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 . total energy consumption in u.s . household by type of housing unit ( table us3 ) , 2009 ( 4 pp , 51k , about pdf ) and u energy information administration : a look at residential energy consumption in 2005 . space-heating energy consumption in u.s . household by type of housing unit ( table sh3 ) , 2009 ( pdf ) ( 7 pp , 58k , about pdf ) turn up thermostat for central air conditioner : assumes 6 percent saving in cool energy use for a 1 degree increase . source : energy star . life cycle cost estimating tool for energy star programmable thermostat , 2008 . assumes that nationally , 20 % of annual electricity consumption be use for space cool . source : u.s. energy information administration . end-use consumption of electricity . total energy consumption in u.s . household by fuel used , 2005 ( pdf ) total energy consumption in u.s . household by type of housing unit , 2005 ( table us4 ) ( pdf ) ( 4 pp , 51k , about pdf ) and total consumption by energy end us , 2005 ( table us12 ) ( pdf ) ( 4 pp , 50k , http : //www.epa.gov/epahome/pdf.htmlabout pdf ) enable sleep feature on your computer and monitor . assumes energy star desktop computer and monitor . average annual unit computer energy ( sleep feature enable , computer turn off at night ) : 80 kwh ; average annual unit computer energy ( sleep feature not enable , computer turn off at night ) : 152 kwh . average annual unit monitor energy ( sleep feature enable , monitor turn off at night ) : 44 kwh ; average annual unit monitor energy ( sleep feature not enable , monitor turn off at night ) : 76 kwh . source : energy star . lbnl home office spreadsheet , 2009 . wash clothe in cold water instead of hot : assumes average use of 485 kwh per year or 1.07 kwh per load . source : d & r international product database , 2011 . use a clothes line or dry rack for 50 % of your laundry , instead of your dryer : assumes 1,079 kwh of electricity use per year . source : u.s. department of energy . a consumer 's guide to energy efficiency and renewable energy , 2007 . replace 60 watt incandescent light bulb with 13 watt compact fluorescent : assumes that light be on for 3 hour per day . source : energy star . cost estimate for energy star qualified light bulb , 2011 . replace old refrigerator with an energy star model : assumes old model us 794 kwh per year ; energy star model use 424 kwh per year . source : source : d & r international historical data table factbook appendix from d & r_2-8-11.xlsx . replace an old boiler or furnace with an energy star model : assumes 2000 sq ft house ; 300 square foot of glass . source : epa climate change action plan ( ccap ) , 2010 . replace single-pane window with energy star windows : assumes 2000 square-foot house , 300 square foot of glass . source : energy star . methodology base on resfen 3.1 calculation perform by lawrence berkeley national laboratory ( lbnl ) , 2005 . recycle calculation assume that it would be possible for household to recycle 100 percent of all recyclable material generate a waste . the plastic material type use in the calculator include pet and hdpe , and the metal material type include aluminum and steel can . basic information greenhouse gas emission science what epa be doing what you can do blank overview of gas overview evaluate policy option , cost , and benefit at home newsroom source of emission cause of climate change regulatory initiative on the road blank global data indicator of climate change voluntary program in the office related link national data future climate change state , local , and tribal partnership at school blank facility data blank blank blank glossary individual calculator blank blank climate connection blank blank climate change impact and adapting to change international partnership clean energy student ' site blank blank blank climate and transportation blank blank blank blank climate and water blank blank blank blank climate and waste blank blank blank blank epa climate science research area navigation climate change home basic information common question greenhouse gas emission overview of gas source of emission global data national data facility data individual calculator science overview cause of climate change indicator of climate change future climate change multimedia gallery impact & adaptation alaska u.s. island southwest southeast northeast northwest midwest great plain international human health ecosystem forest transportation energy coast agriculture and food society water resource adaptation overview tool for public official federal and epa program what epa be doing regulatory initiative voluntary program evaluate policy international partnership state , local , and tribal partnership what you can do at home on the road at the office at school newsroom glossary student ' site news feed podcasts epa mobile news by email wi 