Smart meter : good idea or a lot of hot air ? - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Thursday 05 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Household bill Smart meter : good idea or a lot of hot air ? Not everyones certain that digital unit tell u how much energy we use will low our bill , say Philip Johnston . When the energy supplier come knock on the door to install your new smart meter , you can always say no thanks By Philip Johnston 8:47PM BST 26 Aug 2013 Comments If anyone need convince about the insecurity of Britains energy policy , then the news that some of our big wind farm be last week produce just enough power to boil a few hundred kettle should help . It be the obvious flaw in the system : when the wind do not blow , the turbine either produce no electricity , or even become net consumer to keep themselves go . Supporters of the rush for renewables say that August be typically a month when wind be light but no more so than June , July or September . They argue that most of the time , wind turbine produce clean energy but the question for an advanced economy like ours be whether they produce anything like enough , especially in view of the subsidy they receive . However , help be at hand . We be all go to be equip with smart meter , so we will know how much energy we be use and can adjust accordingly . Advertisements to this effect from the big power supplier be appear everywhere . So , this must be a good idea , mustnt it ? Instead of try to decipher the number on an ancient electricity or gas meter bury deep in the Stygian gloom of a broom cupboard , we will all have state-of-the-art digital display unit tell u that someone have leave the TV on , or that the daughter of the house be dry her hair upstairs . The smart meter project will be one of the most extensive infrastructure program ever see in the UK , with the aim ( set by the EU ) of instal them in 80 per cent of home and small business some 52 million building by 2020 . At one point , it be go to be compulsory to have one , but the Government think this would be an intrusion too far . Still , with the supplier push them like mad , most of u be go to get a smart meter whether we like it or not . Earlier this month , the Department for Energy and Climate Change ( DECC ) announce the prefer bidder for this monumental task , which will involve the removal of million of exist meter and their replacement with electronic device able to communicate remotely with supplier who can take reading at regular interval . In theory , this should mean no more estimate reading that leave you 300 in credit with your gas company , or alternatively face a higher-than-expected bill . Related Articles British Gas ramp up Green Deal promotion 20 Aug 2013 Thousands face rise in energy bill 15 Aug 2013 O2 and Arqiva win smart meter contract 14 Aug 2013 Rivals vie for 2.8bn smart meter contract 10 Aug 2013 British family at risk from smart meter , campaigner tell MPs 24 Apr 2013 I can see the advantage of meter . Yet I have a sneak suspicion that it be go to cost me more , not less . True , at the moment , try to work out the best-value energy supplier be almost impossible . Our home be supply by Marks & Spencer , for goodness sake the result of an encounter in one of their food store between my wife and a salesman promise all sort of goody , include discount voucher that we only receive after chasing them up . Looking at our bill now , it be no cheap than when we be with British Gas . So a smart meter seem like a good idea : customer can automatically receive favourable tariff that reward them for use energy during off-peak period , though I cant see many do the laundry at 3am . Yet this programme be go to cost some 12 billion and the bill be to be pass on to the consumer . So if we really be to be up on the deal , we must be about to get some pretty good bargain a a result . Indeed , DECC estimate it will deliver overall benefit of 18.8 billion , give a net gain of almost 7 billion . Still , a number of energy expert arent convince . Alex Henney , who work in the electricity industry for many year , tell me that when a group of consultant carry out a cost-benefit analysis in 2007 , they calculate a net cost of more than 4 billion . He also insist that the system be introduce here will be twice a expensive a in Italy and Spain . We have devise the most complex roll-out in the world , rely on supplier to provide the meter rather than the network company , say Henney . This increase the cost of capital and require an additional large database , which will lead to error and confusion a we switch supplier . He add that people could be give live information on their energy use via the internet or smartphone apps much more cheaply . Henney tell a Commons energy committee inquiry that the project be likely to be a shamble which will have negligible consumer benefit . The MPs , however , conclude that we should indeed gain overall , although they concede there may be resistance . Some people , for instance , object to the idea of have what amount to a spy in the home , believe it could be use to find out about other activity . This seem excessively paranoid but after the data-mining scandal of recent month , who know ? Ostensibly , smart meter main purpose be to make u use less energy and contribute towards a low-carbon future , along with wind turbine and other renewables . Perhaps they will but at a cost . Germany recently decide not to follow the EUs 80 per cent target for smart meter because it would be too costly for consumer . That be something to bear in mind when you next hear a minister promise to help people who find it hard to pay their fuel bill . There be one thing to remember , however : when the energy supplier come knock on the door to install your new smart meter , you can always say no thanks , and stick with the dumb one under the stair . Whether anyone will ever come and read it for you be another matter . Energy Price Comparison Tool - Find the best gas and electricity deal for you with our handy tariff comparison tool . Switch online in minute . Get a quote over the phone by calling u on 0800 542 7156 and switch in minute . Telegraph Switching Service Telegraph Digital Switching Telegraph Energy Switching Find the best broadband , TV and home phone deal for you See the best gas and electricity deal and switch online Compare now Compare now Household bill Politics Energy Personal Finance Comment Philip Johnston In Household bill The device quietly run up your energy bill How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb The legal way to avoid pay the TV licence fee Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? Compare energy price Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Cheapest Gas & Electricity Deals Advertisement More from the web Loading Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in a kayak race View Cathay Pacific Is your company trading with Hong Kong or China ? Read on View Best of Australia Whale watching in Hervey Bay : top thing to do in Queensland View Telegraph Travel Collection Save up to 60 % on cruise in our Early Spring Saver promotion . 7 night cruise from just 379pp View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast smart meter : good idea or a lot of hot air ? - telegraph accessibility link skip to article skip to navigation advertisement telegraph.co.uk search - enhance by opentext thursday 05 march 2015 home video news world sport finance comment culture travel life woman fashion luxury tech car company comment personal finance isas economy market property enterprise deal investor isas invest pension saving interest rate fund mortgage credit card expat money video special report home finance personal finance household bill smart meter : good idea or a lot of hot air ? not everyones certain that digital unit tell u how much energy we use will low our bill , say philip johnston . when the energy supplier come knock on the door to install your new smart meter , you can always say no thanks by philip johnston 8:47pm bst 26 aug 2013 comment if anyone need convince about the insecurity of britain energy policy , then the news that some of our big wind farm be last week produce just enough power to boil a few hundred kettle should help . it be the obvious flaw in the system : when the wind do not blow , the turbine either produce no electricity , or even become net consumer to keep themselves go . supporter of the rush for renewables say that august be typically a month when wind be light but no more so than june , july or september . they argue that most of the time , wind turbine produce clean energy but the question for an advanced economy like ours be whether they produce anything like enough , especially in view of the subsidy they receive . however , help be at hand . we be all go to be equip with smart meter , so we will know how much energy we be use and can adjust accordingly . advertisement to this effect from the big power supplier be appear everywhere . so , this must be a good idea , mustnt it ? instead of try to decipher the number on an ancient electricity or gas meter bury deep in the stygian gloom of a broom cupboard , we will all have state-of-the-art digital display unit tell u that someone have leave the tv on , or that the daughter of the house be dry her hair upstairs . the smart meter project will be one of the most extensive infrastructure program ever see in the uk , with the aim ( set by the eu ) of instal them in 80 per cent of home and small business some 52 million building by 2020 . at one point , it be go to be compulsory to have one , but the government think this would be an intrusion too far . still , with the supplier push them like mad , most of u be go to get a smart meter whether we like it or not . early this month , the department for energy and climate change ( decc ) announce the prefer bidder for this monumental task , which will involve the removal of million of exist meter and their replacement with electronic device able to communicate remotely with supplier who can take reading at regular interval . in theory , this should mean no more estimate reading that leave you 300 in credit with your gas company , or alternatively face a higher-than-expected bill . related article british gas ramp up green deal promotion 20 aug 2013 thousand face rise in energy bill 15 aug 2013 o2 and arqiva win smart meter contract 14 aug 2013 rival vie for 2.8bn smart meter contract 10 aug 2013 british family at risk from smart meter , campaigner tell mp 24 apr 2013 i can see the advantage of meter . yet i have a sneak suspicion that it be go to cost me more , not less . true , at the moment , try to work out the best-value energy supplier be almost impossible . our home be supply by mark & spencer , for goodness sake the result of an encounter in one of their food store between my wife and a salesman promise all sort of goody , include discount voucher that we only receive after chasing them up . looking at our bill now , it be no cheap than when we be with british gas . so a smart meter seem like a good idea : customer can automatically receive favourable tariff that reward them for use energy during off-peak period , though i cant see many do the laundry at 3am . yet this programme be go to cost some 12 billion and the bill be to be pass on to the consumer . so if we really be to be up on the deal , we must be about to get some pretty good bargain a a result . indeed , decc estimate it will deliver overall benefit of 18.8 billion , give a net gain of almost 7 billion . still , a number of energy expert arent convince . alex henney , who work in the electricity industry for many year , tell me that when a group of consultant carry out a cost-benefit analysis in 2007 , they calculate a net cost of more than 4 billion . he also insist that the system be introduce here will be twice a expensive a in italy and spain . we have devise the most complex roll-out in the world , rely on supplier to provide the meter rather than the network company , say henney . this increase the cost of capital and require an additional large database , which will lead to error and confusion a we switch supplier . he add that people could be give live information on their energy use via the internet or smartphone apps much more cheaply . henney tell a common energy committee inquiry that the project be likely to be a shamble which will have negligible consumer benefit . the mp , however , conclude that we should indeed gain overall , although they concede there may be resistance . some people , for instance , object to the idea of have what amount to a spy in the home , believe it could be use to find out about other activity . this seem excessively paranoid but after the data-mining scandal of recent month , who know ? ostensibly , smart meter main purpose be to make u use less energy and contribute towards a low-carbon future , along with wind turbine and other renewables . perhaps they will but at a cost . germany recently decide not to follow the eu 80 per cent target for smart meter because it would be too costly for consumer . that be something to bear in mind when you next hear a minister promise to help people who find it hard to pay their fuel bill . there be one thing to remember , however : when the energy supplier come knock on the door to install your new smart meter , you can always say no thanks , and stick with the dumb one under the stair . whether anyone will ever come and read it for you be another matter . energy price comparison tool - find the best gas and electricity deal for you with our handy tariff comparison tool . switch online in minute . get a quote over the phone by calling u on 0800 542 7156 and switch in minute . telegraph switching service telegraph digital switching telegraph energy switching find the best broadband , tv and home phone deal for you see the best gas and electricity deal and switch online compare now compare now household bill politics energy personal finance comment philip johnston in household bill the device quietly run up your energy bill how to save '240 a year ' with led lightbulb the legal way to avoid pay the tv licence fee can i save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? compare energy price read more personal finance news young briton aspire to financial independence by age 23 nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that comment how i book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel consumer affair editor dan hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website skyscanner comment martin lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage the moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home comment green deal : beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' comment mapped : the best place to live in england and wale find out how desirable the area you live in be . the telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic comment 1.5pc cash isa now pay 10 monthly bonus hsbc be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash isa , which pay 1.5pc comment i 'm a first-time buyer . should i wait for the new discounted starter home ? aspire homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the government scheme comment first-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket if house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property comment do i need a pension when i 've get five buy-to-let property ? christine osborne have two property in bulgaria . should she sell ? will her web business provide for her retirement ? comment one of britain 's best fund picker name isas for first timer gary potter , one of britain big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying comment advertisement how we moderate telegraphuk please enable javascript to view the comment power by disqus . blog comment power by disqus advertisement cheapest gas & electricity deal advertisement more from the web load advertisement more from the telegraph load sponsored feature driven by adventure watch the brownlee brother in a kayak race view cathay pacific be your company trading with hong kong or china ? read on view best of australia whale watching in hervey bay : top thing to do in queensland view telegraph travel collection save up to 60 % on cruise in our early spring saver promotion . 7 night cruise from just 379pp view back to top home finance financial crisis debt crisis live market bank and finance city diary economics transport medium and telecom energy retail news personal finance your business invest saving student finance job job search company china business money deal money transfer comment alex find an ifa contact u privacy and cooky advertise fantasy football ticket announcement reader print follow u apps epaper expat promotion subscriber syndication copyright of telegraph medium group limited 2015 term and condition today 's news archive style book weather forecast 