Energy Efficient Pool Pumps | SpectraLight 888-895-7080 Contact Us Find a Dealer Request A Quote UV Systems Video More Products Reviews About Blog More Products EcoPump Ultra Energy Efficient Pool Pumps Energy-Efficient Pool Pumps by EcoPump Latest Pump Technology . Longest Warranty . Best Price . Want to beat high utility bill ? Want to increase water quality with 24/7 filtration ? How about a 3-year warranty ? EcoPump energy efficient pool pump deliver all this and more ! You 'll enjoy extreme efficiency without resorting to expensive , complicate controller . Visit Ecopump Site Groundbreaking Electron Condensor Technology Introducing the world first energy efficient pool pump with electron condensor technology . Breakthrough condensor technology store electron in a dielectric until the power be call upon.Then when the motor rotate into the optimal position , the store energy be release , boosting the energy transfer to the impeller . The result be maximum energy reduction , up to 80 % over traditional pool pump . Read more about the benefit of energy efficient pool pump at EcoPump energy efficient pool pump website . Learn More Beats the ROI on Variable Rate Pool Pumps Until now ... pool owner have have to choose between affordability and energy efficiency . Regular single-speed pool pump be inexpensive , but they 're power hog -using 2,000 watt of power or more . Most variable speed pump be efficient but reliablity be poor and price be high . That 's because they require specialize programmable/digital controller . The cost of these controller often bring total cost to $ 1,500 . - $ 2,000 . Those complicated electronic circuit be know to fail early and repair can be as much a a new pump ! For more info on this known problem , perform a Google search for : [ variable speed + poor warranty + unrepairable ] . With EcoPump , no expensive controller be require . EcoPump can be control with a simple time clock , an ordinary power switch , or any exist control system . It 's the best of both world 's in the top rat energy efficient pool pump . Learn More All Pool Pumps Should Run 24 Hours Per Day for Best Water Quality Now you can run your pump twice a long , for half the cost . In the past , many pool owner run their pump just 4-8 hour per day to reduce their electric bill . Thats great for utility bill , but 16-20 hour of stagnant water be not good for water quality . Stagnant water be a breeding ground for bacteria and algae . It 's important to note that commercial pool be require to filter their pool for 24 hour in most state . 24 hour filtration be directly relate to high water quality and reduce chemical demand . Plus equipment such a pool controller , pool automation , and ultraviolet disinfection system can all keep work around the clock for the high water quality . Learn More Calculate the Green Factor on Any Pump Its important to note that there be no set standard when it come to energy efficient pool pump and no energy efficiency rating . Unfortunately , this make it difficult for pool owner to compare one pump to another . To far complicate matter , some company use the word energy efficient and high efficiency in their marketing for pump that be inefficient . The good news be that it easy to calculate how much power a pump will use . Simply multiply the pump amp rat by 230 and divide by 1,000 . Now you know the Kilowatt rating which make it easy to compare with other pump . If you would rather skip the math , visit pool pump review for direct comparison with energy efficient pool pump . Learn More The EcoPump Takes Pool Technology to New Highs , So Your Utility Bills Can Reach New Lows Highest ROI of any pool pump Pump run cool , extend life Perfect for ultraviolet disinfection system Most reliable pump in it class So affordable , you can run 24 hour per day No stagnant water , less pool water issue Reduces energy use and utility bill Rugged one piece housing California Title 20 Compliant Compatible with all pool , include salt water pool Save $ 100 . on EcoPump EcoPump energy efficient pool pump be normally $ 776 . But for a limited time , order EcoPump with any Ultraviolet Disinfection System and save $ 100 ! Please contact u to take advantage of this special offer . Learn More UV Pool Systems UV Pool Systems Brochure Educational UV Video Testimonial Videos UV Slide Presentation SpectraLight Features Why SpectraLight UV FAQ Pool Sanitation Salt Water Pools Chlorine Generator Chlorine Free Pools Chemical Free Pools Pool Ionizers Hydrogen Peroxide Pools Pool Equipment Pool Pumps Energy Efficient Pumps EcoPump Website Pool Filters Pool Controllers Pool Automation Pool Water Pool Algae Cloudy Pool Water Pool Test Kits Pool Sanitation Support Find a Dealer Request a Phone Call Get a Quote Knowledge Center Contact Us Ultraviolet Pool FAQ Order Parts pool uv spa uv search 