New law take aim at inefficient pool pump AZ City or ZIP Movies Dining Coupons Archives Log in Subscribe Activate Help Hi , My account Newsletters Help Log out e-Newspaper Hi , My account Newsletters Help Log out Subscribe Activate User Name / E-mail : Password : Forgot password ? News Sports Money Things To Do Politics Travel Weather Pets Food & Home Today 's Deal Shopping Jobs Cars Homes Rentals Classified In Food & Home : Simple Meals Wine Drinks Entertaining Cooking 101 Hot Lists Dining Home decor DIY Gardening & Outdoors Entertaining Crafts Browse Current Circulars Search for Deals Valley Values Today 's Hot Deals Travel Deals Phoenix job Post Resume Find an Employee Job Fairs & Events Find a New or Used Car Sell a Car Research & Blue Book Value Used Specials | New Specials Cycles , Boats , RVs & More Find a Home Find Other Real Estate Sell Your Home Agents , Advertise Your Listings Find a Rental Search by City , ZIP Request Apts.com Magazine Rent Your Home Managers , Advertise Vacancies Find an Ad | Place an Ad Pets Merchandise & Stuff | Services Announcements & Celebrations Public Notices In Home : Home decor | Arizona Gardening & Outdoors | Entertaining | Crafts | Arizona Cool Homes In Food : Simple Meals | Wine | Drinks | Entertaining | Cooking 101 | Hot Lists | Dining Decor Type Size : A A A Print Email Most Popular New law take aim at inefficient pool pump by Rosie Romero - Jan. 6 , 2012 12:13 PM Special for The Republic | azcentral.com With the arrival of winter and chilly weather , your backyard pool be probably the last thing on your mind . But if you 're not aware of the new pool-pump regulation that go into effect the first day of 2012 , you could find yourself in troubled water . The Arizona Legislature recently pass new energy-efficiency standard for residential pool pump and portable electric spa . Led by a similar law in California and other state , the pool-building industry for year have be try to design and build pool that use less energy . So how do this new law affect pool owner ? While it do n't mean you need to run out and change your in-ground pool and spa motor immediately , it do require any newly instal pump of at least one horsepower or great to meet the new standard . Dual-speed , multiple-speed or variable-speed pump will be the minimum efficiency for pool-pump installation move forward , and inefficient single-speed pump no longer will be allow in new installation . PHOTOS : Cool Home : Best Pools and Spas The culprit : Single-speed pump work fine for simply circulate pool water . However , they do n't efficiently harness enough power to run your pool cleaner , waterfall or other electrical extra that need an occasional , big blast of energy . If you 're run a pump with only one speed , it 's always on -- run full-blast even when your pool cleaner and waterfall be n't operate . There 's no option to dial back to a low level of energy while it 's in use ( for example : when all you need be to circulate the water , which be most of the time ) . That 's a huge waste of energy , and it 's cost you about 90 percent more in electric bill than you should be pay . The good news : You may not know that your pool pump us more electricity than any other appliance in your house except your air-conditioner . You also may not know that most pool be equip with pump that be too big and use way more energy than you need to keep the water sparkle clean . The new regulation will ultimately help homeowner save money over time . Manufacturers claim variable-speed pump can cut energy use by up to 90 percent compare with single-speed pump . Craig O'Grady , who own Desert Sun Pools in Phoenix , say his customer who already have make the switch report save $ 300 or more a year on their electric bill . `` The variable-speed , in my opinion , be the way to go , '' say O'Grady . `` They 're quieter and have a lot of great attribute . Mostly , there 's incredible saving for homeowner . After the first three year , you 're go to save a considerable amount of money . Some of my customer be only pay $ 100 per year , and some a low a $ 55 . That 's an incredible saving . '' The bad news . Although the general public really be just learn about the new regulation , there 's already quite a bit of criticism come from the pool industry . First , the standard will require consumer to purchase pricey , energy-efficient upgrade for any pump they replace . On average , the cost to make the switch can be about $ 1,200 to $ 1,400 for part and installation . `` It 's ultimately a good thing for the homeowner , though , '' O'Grady say . `` You 'll recoup the money you spend in three year . After that , you 're go to be save a lot of money . '' Second , some license pool professional , include O'Grady , be upset there be n't any enforcement plan or penalty in place for pool company that try to skirt the law and install single-speed pump . The lack of punishment for unlicensed pool company that do n't follow the law could give rise to unlicensed service technician skirt the law and may draw customer away from rule-abiding pool professional . Another criticism be that pump upgrade often entail more than a straight swap . For example , if customer have old automation system , they have to pay to upgrade their entire board . Rebates . Both SRP and APS be offer rebate to customer who make the upgrade . Basically , both be offer a $ 200 rebate on all newly manufacture variable-speed pump and $ 100 back on dual-speed model . If you go with the dual-speed model , you 'll also need to purchase a timer or control board -- a second piece of equipment that 's capable of switching motor speed automatically . An additional $ 75 rebate be be offer -- one per household -- when you purchase one of these newly manufacture seasonal timer . Call your utility provider or visit aps.com or srpnet.com for detail about how to take advantage of rebate be offer where you live . Also , get together with your pool professional before make any purchase to ensure you 're take advantage of the rebate properly . More way to save . 1 . Sign up with your electric utility for a time-of-use rate plan . APS and SRP offer them . You 'll pay a reduce rate for electricity if you run your pool pump and other appliance , such a your dishwasher or wash machine , during hour of the day when demand for electricity be n't at it peak . Example : SRP will cut your `` off-peak '' rate from the standard 11 cent per kilowatt-hour ( a measure of electricity use ) to about 6.5 cent if you run your pool pump and other appliance from 8 p.m. to 1 p.m. during the summer . If you run the device between 1 p.m. and 8 p.m. , you 'll pay more to use the same electricity . SRP estimate time-of-use-plan customer save up to 7 percent on their electric bill . 2 . Run your pool pump less . It 's not necessary to run it round-the-clock . Most manufacturer recommend run it between eight and 10 hour a day in the summer and about half that in the winter . 3 . Put a timer on the pump so it automatically shut off after those hour , and set it to run only when you 're pay off-peak rate . 4 . Switch to LEDs , which use up to 75 percent less energy than your traditional incandescent underwater light . LEDs last for year and come in multiple color . 5 . Keep your chemical in balance . Doug Sydenham of Postorino Pool Service & Repair in Scottsdale say it cost about $ 125 to have a pool service come out and test the level of `` total dissolve solid , '' such a calcium , in the water and determine whether you need to drain and refill your pool . 6 . Clean trap basket , filter and pool wall and floor regularly . Clogged basket and filter can prevent the water from flow freely and will slow your filter . The harder the pump have to work to keep the pool clean , the more you 'll pay to run it . For more do-it-yourself tip , go to rosieonthehouse.com . An Arizona homebuilding- and remodeling-industry expert for 35 year , Rosie Romero be the host of the `` Rosie on the House '' radio program from 8-11 a.m. Saturdays on KTAR-FM ( 92.3 ) in Phoenix , KQNA-AM ( 1130 ) in Prescott , KAZM-AM ( 780 ) in Sedona , KAFF-AM ( 930 ) in Flagstaff and KNST-AM ( 790 ) in Tucson . Type Size : A A A Print Email Most Popular search local business : Popular Searches Phoenix Accountants Phoenix Attorneys Phoenix Churches Phoenix Dry Cleaners Phoenix Florists Phoenix Landscapers Phoenix Dentists Phoenix Doctors Phoenix Schools Phoenix Furniture More Popular Searches Phoenix Apartments Phoenix Attorneys Phoenix Auto Dealers Phoenix Auto Parts Phoenix Auto Repair Phoenix Beauty Salons Phoenix Car Rental Phoenix Dentists Phoenix Doctors Phoenix Hotels Phoenix Insurance Phoenix Loans Phoenix Mortgages Phoenix Movers Phoenix Pizza Phoenix Realtors Phoenix Restaurants Phoenix Storage Phoenix Tax Prep Phoenix Travel Phoenix Featured More ... Powered by Local.com Presidential Pools Dual- , multiple- or variable-speed pump be require on new installation under a state law that take effect Jan. 1 . find it fast cook 101 cool home craft diy drink entertain food garden home design mexican food recipe search simple meal Most read 13 way to make visitor feel comfortable in your home Chef Dish : Top 5 important kitchen skill Cooking a turkey outdoors ... on a spit Keep holiday poinsettias pretty with proper care Common cause of household odor Arizona Garden : Leaning saguaro need professional help How to make a basic butter sauce Crafters find Tyvek can do more than wrap DIY job that require a permit Venison With Pears , Bacon and Pomegranate more food & home Featured Fresh yellow decor for spring 10 tip for a perfect patio Plan now to save water in summer Cool children 's bedroom Arizona garden expert advice more home Cool Homes Total redo for 1924 Willo district home | Tour Stunning Bruder-designed home near Piestewa Peak | Tour Mesa midcentury tour home be ahead of it time | Tour Former crack den transform into mod apartment | Tour Old World opulence be one of four Mesa tour 'gems' | Tour more cool home Home & Garden Deals more home & garden deal subscribe to home & garden deal Visit Deal Chicken every day to find big saving from local business . Today 's deal : Plus Size Tunic Top ( Assorted Colors/Sizes ) . Sign up to get the deal e-mailed to you each day Business owner : We pay you to promote your deal TOP HOMES Cave Creek - $ 1,099,000 MLS 5237322 4 bed / 5 bath 3800 / 2000 Janet Mohr , CCIM , CRS , Associate Broker , Realty Executives Carefree - $ 750,000 MLS 5224876 4 bed / 3 bath 3221 / 1998 Andrew R Bloom , Re/Max Platinum Living Phoenix - $ 595,000 MLS 5216018 4 bed / 2 bath 3223 / 2004 Sam Francis , RE/MAX Fine Properties Agents ! Display your listing here ! Thousands more home listing email alert Enter your email address to get Style newsletter . Find RSS feed for home & garden deal , fashion feature , nightlife event and much more ! Go to full RSS page Use your phone to search for thing to do at restaurant , bar & club , and movie theater ! Find out how easy it be to connect ! Follow our late Twitter activity on topic range from great deal around the Valley to break news . Become a fan of azcentral.com on Facebook and you 'll get the day 's most popular and talked-about Valley news , sport , entertainment and more - right in your newsfeed . Become a fan SITE MAP azcentral.com main arizona vacation lavozarizona.com phoenix news food & home phoenix weather arizona sport style classify phoenix business photo phoenix job thing to do video phoenix car arizona cardinal phoenix home phoenix calendar r feed newsletter public notice CUSTOMER SERVICE term of service advertise with Republic Media privacy policy contact The Republic about The Republic subscribe to The Republic job at The Republic Republic subscriber service Media in Education job at KPNX-TV about KPNX-TV PARTNERS USA Today Gannett Co. Inc . Apartments : apartments.com Cars : cars.com Dating : eHarmony.com Homes : Homefinder.com HomeGain Jobs : CareerBuilder.com Local Businesses Shopping : ShopLocal.com Copyright 2012 , azcentral.com . All right reserve . Users of this site agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy/Your California Privacy Rights Log in Are you currently a subscriber ? Set up your digital access now Email address : Password : Reset your password ? Log in Need help ? Call ( 800 ) 332-6733 Or Chat Now Users of this site agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions Would you like to share your digital subscription ? You can share your full access digital subscription with a friend by simply enter in their email address . Click below to proceed . Share now Remind me No thanks Enjoy a limited number of free article over the next 30 day . 20 free article s remain this month . Subscribe today for full access Already a subscriber ? Activate your account now ! We hope you have enjoy your complimentary access . Become a subscriber today to enjoy these benefit : Unlimited access to our Web site Tablet-Optimized edition Mobile site & iPhone app View subscription option Log in Are you currently a subscriber ? Set up your digital access now . Cookies must be enable on your browser to view this site . Javascript must be enable on your browser to view this site . new law take aim at inefficient pool pump az city or zip movie din coupon archive log in subscribe activate help hi , my account newsletter help log out e-newspaper hi , my account newsletter help log out subscribe activate user name / e-mail : password : forgot password ? news sport money thing to do politics travel weather pet food & home today 's deal shop job car home rental classified in food & home : simple meal wine drink entertain cook 101 hot list din home decor diy garden & outdoors entertain craft browse current circular search for deal valley value today 's hot deal travel deal phoenix job post resume find an employee job fair & event find a new or used car sell a car research & blue book value used special | new special cycle , boat , rv & more find a home find other real estate sell your home agent , advertise your listing find a rental search by city , zip request apts.com magazine rent your home manager , advertise vacancy find an ad | place an ad pet merchandise & stuff | service announcement & celebration public notice in home : home decor | arizona gardening & outdoors | entertain | craft | arizona cool home in food : simple meal | wine | drink | entertain | cook 101 | hot list | din decor type size : a a a print email most popular new law take aim at inefficient pool pump by rosie romero - jan. 6 , 2012 12:13 pm special for the republic | azcentral.com with the arrival of winter and chilly weather , your backyard pool be probably the last thing on your mind . but if you 're not aware of the new pool-pump regulation that go into effect the first day of 2012 , you could find yourself in troubled water . the arizona legislature recently pass new energy-efficiency standard for residential pool pump and portable electric spa . led by a similar law in california and other state , the pool-building industry for year have be try to design and build pool that use less energy . so how do this new law affect pool owner ? while it do n't mean you need to run out and change your in-ground pool and spa motor immediately , it do require any newly instal pump of at least one horsepower or great to meet the new standard . dual-speed , multiple-speed or variable-speed pump will be the minimum efficiency for pool-pump installation move forward , and inefficient single-speed pump no longer will be allow in new installation . photo : cool home : best pool and spa the culprit : single-speed pump work fine for simply circulate pool water . however , they do n't efficiently harness enough power to run your pool cleaner , waterfall or other electrical extra that need an occasional , big blast of energy . if you 're run a pump with only one speed , it 's always on -- run full-blast even when your pool cleaner and waterfall be n't operate . there 's no option to dial back to a low level of energy while it 's in use ( for example : when all you need be to circulate the water , which be most of the time ) . that 's a huge waste of energy , and it 's cost you about 90 percent more in electric bill than you should be pay . the good news : you may not know that your pool pump us more electricity than any other appliance in your house except your air-conditioner . you also may not know that most pool be equip with pump that be too big and use way more energy than you need to keep the water sparkle clean . the new regulation will ultimately help homeowner save money over time . manufacturer claim variable-speed pump can cut energy use by up to 90 percent compare with single-speed pump . craig o'grady , who own desert sun pool in phoenix , say his customer who already have make the switch report save $ 300 or more a year on their electric bill . `` the variable-speed , in my opinion , be the way to go , '' say o'grady . `` they 're quieter and have a lot of great attribute . mostly , there 's incredible saving for homeowner . after the first three year , you 're go to save a considerable amount of money . some of my customer be only pay $ 100 per year , and some a low a $ 55 . that 's an incredible saving . '' the bad news . although the general public really be just learn about the new regulation , there 's already quite a bit of criticism come from the pool industry . first , the standard will require consumer to purchase pricey , energy-efficient upgrade for any pump they replace . on average , the cost to make the switch can be about $ 1,200 to $ 1,400 for part and installation . `` it 's ultimately a good thing for the homeowner , though , '' o'grady say . `` you 'll recoup the money you spend in three year . after that , you 're go to be save a lot of money . '' second , some license pool professional , include o'grady , be upset there be n't any enforcement plan or penalty in place for pool company that try to skirt the law and install single-speed pump . the lack of punishment for unlicensed pool company that do n't follow the law could give rise to unlicensed service technician skirt the law and may draw customer away from rule-abiding pool professional . another criticism be that pump upgrade often entail more than a straight swap . for example , if customer have old automation system , they have to pay to upgrade their entire board . rebate . both srp and aps be offer rebate to customer who make the upgrade . basically , both be offer a $ 200 rebate on all newly manufacture variable-speed pump and $ 100 back on dual-speed model . if you go with the dual-speed model , you 'll also need to purchase a timer or control board -- a second piece of equipment that 's capable of switching motor speed automatically . an additional $ 75 rebate be be offer -- one per household -- when you purchase one of these newly manufacture seasonal timer . call your utility provider or visit aps.com or srpnet.com for detail about how to take advantage of rebate be offer where you live . also , get together with your pool professional before make any purchase to ensure you 're take advantage of the rebate properly . more way to save . 1 . sign up with your electric utility for a time-of-use rate plan . aps and srp offer them . you 'll pay a reduce rate for electricity if you run your pool pump and other appliance , such a your dishwasher or wash machine , during hour of the day when demand for electricity be n't at it peak . example : srp will cut your `` off-peak '' rate from the standard 11 cent per kilowatt-hour ( a measure of electricity use ) to about 6.5 cent if you run your pool pump and other appliance from 8 p.m. to 1 p.m. during the summer . if you run the device between 1 p.m. and 8 p.m. , you 'll pay more to use the same electricity . srp estimate time-of-use-plan customer save up to 7 percent on their electric bill . 2 . run your pool pump less . it 's not necessary to run it round-the-clock . most manufacturer recommend run it between eight and 10 hour a day in the summer and about half that in the winter . 3 . put a timer on the pump so it automatically shut off after those hour , and set it to run only when you 're pay off-peak rate . 4 . switch to led , which use up to 75 percent less energy than your traditional incandescent underwater light . led last for year and come in multiple color . 5 . keep your chemical in balance . doug sydenham of postorino pool service & repair in scottsdale say it cost about $ 125 to have a pool service come out and test the level of `` total dissolve solid , '' such a calcium , in the water and determine whether you need to drain and refill your pool . 6 . clean trap basket , filter and pool wall and floor regularly . clogged basket and filter can prevent the water from flow freely and will slow your filter . the harder the pump have to work to keep the pool clean , the more you 'll pay to run it . for more do-it-yourself tip , go to rosieonthehouse.com . an arizona homebuilding- and remodeling-industry expert for 35 year , rosie romero be the host of the `` rosie on the house '' radio program from 8-11 a.m. saturday on ktar-fm ( 92.3 ) in phoenix , kqna-am ( 1130 ) in prescott , kazm-am ( 780 ) in sedona , kaff-am ( 930 ) in flagstaff and knst-am ( 790 ) in tucson . type size : a a a print email most popular search local business : popular search phoenix accountant phoenix attorney phoenix church phoenix dry cleaner phoenix florist phoenix landscaper phoenix dentist phoenix doctor phoenix school phoenix furniture more popular search phoenix apartment phoenix attorney phoenix auto dealer phoenix auto part phoenix auto repair phoenix beauty salon phoenix car rental phoenix dentist phoenix doctor phoenix hotel phoenix insurance phoenix loan phoenix mortgage phoenix mover phoenix pizza phoenix realtor phoenix restaurant phoenix storage phoenix tax prep phoenix travel phoenix featured more ... powered by local.com presidential pool dual- , multiple- or variable-speed pump be require on new installation under a state law that take effect jan. 1 . find it fast cook 101 cool home craft diy drink entertain food garden home design mexican food recipe search simple meal most read 13 way to make visitor feel comfortable in your home chef dish : top 5 important kitchen skill cook a turkey outdoors ... on a spit keep holiday poinsettias pretty with proper care common cause of household odor arizona garden : leaning saguaro need professional help how to make a basic butter sauce crafter find tyvek can do more than wrap diy job that require a permit venison with pear , bacon and pomegranate more food & home featured fresh yellow decor for spring 10 tip for a perfect patio plan now to save water in summer cool children 's bedroom arizona garden expert advice more home cool home total redo for 1924 willo district home | tour stun bruder-designed home near piestewa peak | tour mesa midcentury tour home be ahead of it time | tour former crack den transform into mod apartment | tour old world opulence be one of four mesa tour 'gems' | tour more cool home home & garden deal more home & garden deal subscribe to home & garden deal visit deal chicken every day to find big saving from local business . today 's deal : plus size tunic top ( assorted colors/sizes ) . sign up to get the deal e-mailed to you each day business owner : we pay you to promote your deal top home cave creek - $ 1,099,000 ml 5237322 4 bed / 5 bath 3800 / 2000 janet mohr , ccim , cr , associate broker , realty executive carefree - $ 750,000 ml 5224876 4 bed / 3 bath 3221 / 1998 andrew r bloom , re/max platinum living phoenix - $ 595,000 ml 5216018 4 bed / 2 bath 3223 / 2004 sam francis , re/max fine property agent ! display your listing here ! thousand more home listing email alert enter your email address to get style newsletter . find r feed for home & garden deal , fashion feature , nightlife event and much more ! go to full r page use your phone to search for thing to do at restaurant , bar & club , and movie theater ! find out how easy it be to connect ! follow our late twitter activity on topic range from great deal around the valley to break news . become a fan of azcentral.com on facebook and you 'll get the day 's most popular and talked-about valley news , sport , entertainment and more - right in your newsfeed . become a fan site map azcentral.com main arizona vacation lavozarizona.com phoenix news food & home phoenix weather arizona sport style classify phoenix business photo phoenix job thing to do video phoenix car arizona cardinal phoenix home phoenix calendar r feed newsletter public notice customer service term of service advertise with republic medium privacy policy contact the republic about the republic subscribe to the republic job at the republic republic subscriber service medium in education job at kpnx-tv about kpnx-tv partner usa today gannett co. inc . apartment : apartments.com car : cars.com date : eharmony.com home : homefinder.com homegain job : careerbuilder.com local business shop : shoplocal.com copyright 2012 , azcentral.com . all right reserve . user of this site agree to the term of service and privacy policy/your california privacy right log in are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now email address : password : reset your password ? log in need help ? call ( 800 ) 332-6733 or chat now user of this site agree to the privacy policy and term and condition would you like to share your digital subscription ? you can share your full access digital subscription with a friend by simply enter in their email address . click below to proceed . share now remind me no thanks enjoy a limited number of free article over the next 30 day . 20 free article s remain this month . subscribe today for full access already a subscriber ? activate your account now ! we hope you have enjoy your complimentary access . become a subscriber today to enjoy these benefit : unlimited access to our web site tablet-optimized edition mobile site & iphone app view subscription option log in are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now . cooky must be enable on your browser to view this site . javascript must be enable on your browser to view this site . 