Keep calm : Your iPhone do not use more energy than your refrigerator : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social Keep calm : Your iPhone do not use more energy than your refrigerator Derek Markham ( @ derekmarkham ) Technology / Gadgets August 26 , 2013 Share on Facebook CC BY 3.0 Yutaka Tsutano The internet be buzz last week with the release of a report that make some pretty big claim , include the startling statement that an iPhone use more energy each year than a refrigerator . But a closer look at the data behind the report reveals that not only be there too many variable in smartphone data use to accurately make a blanket statement like that , but that the figure use in the calculation may be dubious a well . When the headline of article about the report , `` The Cloud Begins With Coal , '' begin fly around the web , the claim that the ubiquitous smartphone and the infrastructure behind them be responsible for large amount of electrical consumption seem just far-out enough to be true , and a number of news site just run with it and share it with their reader , without fact-checking it or question the claim , especially this one : Reduced to personal term , although charging up a single tablet or smart phone require a negligible amount of electricity , use either to watch an hour of video weekly consume annually more electricity in the remote network than two new refrigerator use in a year . '' ( emphasis add ) But the story caught the eye of Jonathan Koomey , Ph.D. , a Research Fellow at the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance at Stanford University , who find it to be riddle with error and false assumption and rebut the conclusion from the paper in a piece at Think Progress . `` Mark Mills create headline in the past week by claiming that all the power need to bring data to the iPhone , plus all the related energy to manufacture it and the related network equipment , make it responsible for a much electricity a two refrigerator . A more careful analysis confirms that Mr. Mills have overestimate the electricity associate with an iPhone by at least a factor of 18 . '' - Koomey Koomey go into quite a bit of detail on the background of the issue , from the complexity in determining the energy demand of smartphones and their effect on cell or data network , to the error he 's find in Mill 's previous claim of high energy consumption for handheld device . [ Neither Mills nor Koomey include figure for the direct electrical demand for powering smartphones , or the electrical use for the data center or network , a they be consider to be relatively small when compare to the other factor . ] In his piece , Koomey dissects the claim make by Mills , add a fair amount of necessary background on the issue of calculate the energy use attribute to a smartphone and the demand it put on the network they connect to . He then go on with his own detailed analysis of the issue , follow a parallel path to Mills , but with a different conclusion , one which call into question the medium 's ability to report sensibly on technical issue . `` The big story here be why the medium be pay any attention to this report at all . Mr. Mills prove more than a decade ago that he be not a reliable source on the issue of electricity use by information technology , and his recent work simply confirm this . Unfortunately , it also confirm what seem to be an inability of most medium outlet to report sensibly about technical topic , in part because of the pressure to generate attention-getting headline , regardless of their veracity . '' - Koomey Read the entire piece here : Does Your iPhone Use As Much Electricity As A New Refrigerator ? Not Even Close . Related on TreeHugger.com : The true impact of not recycle our old electronics Beartooth turn your smartphone into an emergency two-way radio Skin patch could power personal device Tags : Energy | Gadgets | Technology facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW National Bank of Abu Dhabi : Even at $ 10 per barrel , oil ca n't match solar on cost Emulsifiers in packaged food be wreak havoc with our digestive tract LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin Prefab Australian home produce more energy than it use 21 Natural Home Remedies for Pets The ELF could replace a car for a lot of people Tesla now have 2,000 Superchargers , which have power 86 million electric mile ! 11 easy way to reduce your plastic waste today The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 