Pros and Cons of Gas Versus Electric Ranges - TopTenREVIEWS Donut Makers Review Dryers Review Toaster Ovens Review Blenders Review Pros and Cons of Gas Versus Electric Ranges By Marinda Bean FOLLOW US SHARE With many great range option available , it can be overwhelm to even narrow the field to choosing between gas or electric , let alone tackle the daunt task of examine the particular model . Many people have strong opinion and swear by one or the other . In reality , they will both get the job done and each have it own strength and weakness . Ads Professional cook swear by the versatility of flame heat that you can quickly and accurately adjust . Mothers with toddler on the other hand cant imagine purposely have an open flame anywhere near their home . A major consideration for anyone purchase a new kitchen range be cost . Overall , electric range be less expensive to manufacture make them less expensive to purchase . Cost will also be significantly less if your kitchen be pre-wired for an electric range . It can become costly if you have to have a gas line run into an exist property . The time-honored debate rage on , but you can feel more confident make a choice with these helpful hint on your side . Once youve narrow your choice to gas or electric , you will appreciate our review of electric range which will do the rest of the work for you . At TopTenREVIEWS We Do the Research So You Dont Have To . Electric Ranges Pros : Less expensive to buy and install . Simply plug into the wall and youre ready to cook . Easier to clean burner and surface . Smooth-top electric range be more stable for pot and offer additional counter or storage space when not in use . Instantly turn on and off every time with the twist of a knob versus gas range that may sputter to catch a flame , emit unburned and potentially hazardous gas . No igniter or light necessary . More function , such a additional fan and grillers , be available than their gas counterpart . More even heat distribution when bake . Dry heat for optimal oven roast condition . Cons : Youll miss out on the smores ! Slower to cool when a burner be turn down or off . Subject to power outage . Gas Ranges Pros : More even stave top heat for cooking . Easy to gauge and precisely adjust the level of heat by altering the flame . Natural gas be inexpensive , abundantly available and clean burning . Natural gas range be less expensive to operate than electric range . The heat from a gas flame heat the side , a well a the bottom , of pan , cook food faster . Able to change temperature rapidly . You can immediately remove the heat when the flame be turn off , so you can still leave food on the stove to rest without continue to cook . Less ambient heat to the rest of the kitchen . Cons : More expensive to buy and install . More dangerous . Increased potential for gas leak , the lead cause of residential fire . If a gas line be damage or a pot boil over and quenches the flame , a home can quickly fill with toxic , flammable gas . Children or pet be also at great risk to be burn or catch fire with an open flame . Diminished Baking Results . Oven temp be hotter at the top so bake requires rotation and placement farther from heat source . Gas give off moisture when cook , create a humid heat rather than the dry heat require for effective roasting . At TopTenREVIEWS We Do the Research So You Do n't Have To . Ads Software Electronics Services Mobile Appliances Business Auto Tech Science Tech Appliances Kitchen Electric Range Review Pros and Cons of Gas Versus Electric Ranges Share this [ X ] del.icio.us Digg StumbleUpon Yahoo ! My Web Facebook Google Bookmarks ma.gnolia Newsvine reddit Windows Live TopTen Product List 1 Maytag MER8600 2 LG LRE3021ST 3 Kenmore 94183 4 GE JB250 5 Samsung FE-R300SB 6 GE JB350 7 Amana AER5630 8 Whirlpool WFFE510S0 9 Frigidaire FFEF3015 10 Whirlpool WFC310S0 See All Electric Range Review ( 11 ) Most Popular Products Best AntiVirus Software 2,858,366 view Video Editing Software 2,343,642 view DVD Copy Software 2,221,828 view Registry Repair Software 2,190,395 view Internet Filter Software 1,650,354 view Company Company Info About the Site Contact Us Advertise with Us Using our Content Licensing & Reprints Privacy Policy Sitemap Review Methodology Our Brands Top Ten Reviews Tom 's Guide LAPTOP Tom 's Hardware BusinessNewsDaily Tom 's IT PRO SPACE.com LiveScience Categories Software Electronics Services Mobile Appliances Auto Tech Science Tech Business Careers Follow Us pro and con of gas versus electric range - toptenreviews donut maker review dryer review toaster oven review blender review pro and con of gas versus electric range by marinda bean follow u share with many great range option available , it can be overwhelm to even narrow the field to choosing between gas or electric , let alone tackle the daunt task of examine the particular model . many people have strong opinion and swear by one or the other . in reality , they will both get the job done and each have it own strength and weakness . ad professional cook swear by the versatility of flame heat that you can quickly and accurately adjust . mother with toddler on the other hand cant imagine purposely have an open flame anywhere near their home . a major consideration for anyone purchase a new kitchen range be cost . overall , electric range be less expensive to manufacture make them less expensive to purchase . cost will also be significantly less if your kitchen be pre-wired for an electric range . it can become costly if you have to have a gas line run into an exist property . the time-honored debate rage on , but you can feel more confident make a choice with these helpful hint on your side . once youve narrow your choice to gas or electric , you will appreciate our review of electric range which will do the rest of the work for you . at toptenreviews we do the research so you dont have to . electric range pro : less expensive to buy and install . simply plug into the wall and youre ready to cook . easy to clean burner and surface . smooth-top electric range be more stable for pot and offer additional counter or storage space when not in use . instantly turn on and off every time with the twist of a knob versus gas range that may sputter to catch a flame , emit unburned and potentially hazardous gas . no igniter or light necessary . more function , such a additional fan and grillers , be available than their gas counterpart . more even heat distribution when bake . dry heat for optimal oven roast condition . con : youll miss out on the smores ! slow to cool when a burner be turn down or off . subject to power outage . gas range pro : more even stave top heat for cooking . easy to gauge and precisely adjust the level of heat by altering the flame . natural gas be inexpensive , abundantly available and clean burning . natural gas range be less expensive to operate than electric range . the heat from a gas flame heat the side , a well a the bottom , of pan , cook food faster . able to change temperature rapidly . you can immediately remove the heat when the flame be turn off , so you can still leave food on the stove to rest without continue to cook . less ambient heat to the rest of the kitchen . con : more expensive to buy and install . more dangerous . increase potential for gas leak , the lead cause of residential fire . if a gas line be damage or a pot boil over and quenches the flame , a home can quickly fill with toxic , flammable gas . child or pet be also at great risk to be burn or catch fire with an open flame . diminished baking result . oven temp be hotter at the top so bake requires rotation and placement farther from heat source . gas give off moisture when cook , create a humid heat rather than the dry heat require for effective roasting . at toptenreviews we do the research so you do n't have to . ad software electronics service mobile appliance business auto tech science tech appliance kitchen electric range review pro and con of gas versus electric range share this [ x ] del.icio.us digg stumbleupon yahoo ! my web facebook google bookmark ma.gnolia newsvine reddit window live topten product list 1 maytag mer8600 2 lg lre3021st 3 kenmore 94183 4 ge jb250 5 samsung fe-r300sb 6 ge jb350 7 amana aer5630 8 whirlpool wffe510s0 9 frigidaire ffef3015 10 whirlpool wfc310s0 see all electric range review ( 11 ) most popular product best antivirus software 2,858,366 view video editing software 2,343,642 view dvd copy software 2,221,828 view registry repair software 2,190,395 view internet filter software 1,650,354 view company company info about the site contact u advertise with u use our content license & reprint privacy policy sitemap review methodology our brand top ten review tom 's guide laptop tom 's hardware businessnewsdaily tom 's it pro space.com livescience category software electronics service mobile appliance auto tech science tech business career follow u 