SuperTopo Goes Solar - How and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house - SuperTopo.com Welcome Guest ! Join SuperTopo Sign In Home Climbing Areas Alaska Bay Area Bouldering Desert Towers , Utah High Sierra Red Rocks , Nevada South Lake Tahoe Yosemite Big Walls Yosemite Valley Tuolumne Meadows Zion National Park Climbing Routes Route Search Boulder Search Trad Climbing Routes Alaska Desert Towers , Utah High Sierra Red Rocks , Nevada South Lake Tahoe Yosemite Valley Tuolumne Meadows Big Wall Routes Yosemite Big Walls Zion National Park , Utah Bouldering Routes Bay Area Bouldering Northern California Bouldering Yosemite Valley Bouldering Lake Tahoe Bouldering Tuolumne Bouldering Guidebooks Traditional Climbing Alaska Climbing Desert Towers Select High Sierra Climbing Red Rocks Climbing South Lake Tahoe Climbing Yosemite Valley Free Climbs Tuolumne Free Climbs Big Wall Climbing Yosemite Big Walls The Road to the Nose Zion Climbing : Free and Clean Bouldering Bay Area Bouldering Lake Tahoe Bouldering Northern California Bouldering Yosemite Valley Bouldering Tuolumne Bouldering DVDs Learning to Fly DVD The Sharp End DVD Free Topos Photos Featured Photos Pro Photo Gallery Climber Slideshows Upload a Photo My Photos Search Photos Gear Gear Reviews Belay Devices Climbing Harnesses Climbing Helmets Rock Protection Big Wall Gear Bouldering Gear Snow and Ice Carabiners Rock Climbing Shoes Gear Slings and Runners View All Gear Categories Best-in-Class Awards Forum Climber 's Discussion Forum Recent Route Beta Postings Recent Trip Reports Recent Articles Recent Gear Reviews Home > Article > SuperTopo Goes Solar - How and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house Monday , March 2 , 2015 Article SuperTopo Goes Solar - How and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house by Chris McNamara Thursday November 27 , 2014 10:18am SuperTopo 's West Coast Headquarters ( AKA Lita and Chris McNamara's House ) just instal home solar panel - Yes ! Solar panel at Chris Mac 's house Credit : Chris McNamara I have dream of owning solar panel since I be 10 ( I be a weird kid ) . I 've be research the best solar panel system since 2008 . I be a little worry that all the hype and buildup would not equal the reality . But I have to say the panel be well than I imagine . Chris Mac 's solar power system Credit : Chris McNamara enphase microinverter Credit : Chris McNamara Why do we go solar ? Three reason : 1 - I have always think solar be cool . A 10-year immersion in eastern psychology text leave me not want many possession EXCEPT I have always want to own home solar panel but never have a house to put them on . So in the interim , I put my focus on portable solar panel . I just like the idea of generate my own power . Especially if it can then be use power something like my electric bike . 2 - It 's a really good investment ( see below ) . In today 's stock and bond environment , it 's actually hard to think of a safer investment with a more guarantee rate of return over a 10 to 30-year period . If you want to invest in solar installation without put them on your roof , here be two option : Mosaic and Spring 2014 with SolarCity . 3 - I 'm a big believer in moving to more renewable energy and away from drilling/mining/burning . I 've read way too many book on the subject , many of which be rant polemic . But two great book be Oil On The Brain which tour the globe report on how oil extraction happens and who it affect and The Quest which I think give a pretty good history lesson on where our energy come from and where it be head . Both book take you on a global adventure where you meet entertain character along the way . Sharp solar panel on our house . Credit : Chris McNamara Questions people often ask me about solar for the home How Long Does It Take to Pay Back ? It depend on at least five variable that be all dynamic ( except for the system cost ) how much power you use your electric rate system cost how much electricity rate go up in the next 25-plus year . how you define `` payback '' It will probably take me seven year to pay for the system in electricity generation . After that it be free electricity or I be sell back extra power . However , there be always the argument that it actually pay for itself on Day 1 because the system cost , discount by 30 to 50 percent in state ( California ) and federal incentive , likely add that much value to your house . Here be a study ( PDF ) from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory that found solar boost the value of your house by $ 5.50 a watt in resale value . Since I pay far less than $ 5.50 per watt I guess the payback period take about no time ! There be a lot of tool to calculate cost and payback time of solar . This be my favorite solar calculator And here be a very detail article on solar payback time ( PDF ) I buy my system because I want `` The joy of own home solar panel '' and the long term investment benefit . However , today you can get solar panel on your roof for nothing because many company like Solar City , RealGoods and Sungevity offer various form of solar lease . This option be ideal for folk who do n't want to spend the up-front money . One great we have hear good thing about be Sunrun . What be the rate of return on the investment ? It all depends on where electricity rate go . In the below graph I use a four percent annual rate of utility inflation , which seem conservative because for the last 37 year in California utility price have go up on average six percent annually . Credit : Chris McNamara It also depend on how long the system last . Components be guarantee for 25 year and most system old than that still produce 80 percent of their original power . In the below number I conservatively only use the first 25 year . If you plug in a six percent rate of utility inflation and assume the system will last 40-plus year , the rate of return be much high . While it 's hard to pin down exactly how good an investment solar be , it be clear that it be a good one if you live in an area with good sun and use a decent amount of electricity . Example estimate rate of return on a home solar panel system Credit : Chris McNamara Is the environmental cost of make the panel worth the power generate ? Yes . Big yes . The energy require to make a panel be produce by the panel in one to four year accord to this article ( PDF ) or less than 1.5 to two year accord to this article Are solar panel the best way to save money and protect the environment ? No , efficiency will always be the best return on investment and best for the planet . The cheap and clean kilowatt of electricity be the one you never buy or use . For example , I have be obsess efficient car for year ( half hoping my '97 Subaru dy so I can justify get one ) . But then I realize I should really be focus on electric bike ( which be insanely efficient in their use of electricity ) or just a regular bike . The most efficient car in the world be the one you never drive . Here be an awesome site for DIY energy conservation project . Another great resource be JohnSavesEnergy.com How do you choose which installer ? I get bid from five company : SolarCraft , Real Goods Solar , Solar City , Sun First ! , and Cooperative Community Energy . I end up go with SolarCraft just because they seem to have the best customer service and they happen to have the best price . They also have access to great financing . The whole process went a seamlessly a any construction project I have be a part of . I highly recommend them . A few friend have also use Real Goods and highly recommend them . What panel and inverter do you use ? Our 3.3 KW system be compose of 14 Sharp 235 watt panel with Enphase microinverters . I go with the least expensive panel which happen to be Sharp . I use the Enphase microinverters because I have some shade issue . If you have partial shade , you need either a microinverter or product like SolarCity have which make sure a few shade panel do n't bring down the whole system 's production level . But even without the shade , I might have go with the Enphase because they generate five to 15 percent more power than central inverter in the real-world monitoring case I have hear about . More importantly , the Enphase let you see how every panel be produce at every moment on your computer or iPhone , which be very cool ( see below ) . The Enphase software show me how much power I be generate . Data be update every 5-15 minute . Credit : Chris McNamara Are you on the grid or off the grid ? Does your meter spin backwards ? Our system be grid-tied . When it 's sunny , we sell power back to the grid , usually a high rate , and our meter spin backwards ( it 's a digital meter so sadly there be no dial to spin only a small blinking arrow ) . When it dark , we buy power back at a low rate . For example , in the summer , during peak hour , I can be off climb while our system sell power to the grid at $ 0.21 a kilowatt hour . When I get home at night the rate to buy it might only be $ 0.04 a kilowatt hour . So at the end of the year I will probably get a decent size check from our utility company . I be lucky because in Marin County we have Marin Clean Energy that pay a good price ( retail price plus a penny ) to buy your extra power . In most part of California , PGE will only pay you for your excess power at the wholesale rate ( which be 30 to 50 percent less than the retail rate ) . Off-the-grid system be really only for if you either live where you do n't have access to the grid , it be prohibitively expensive to get access to the grid , or if you philosophically just want to be off the grid . Being off the grid do n't make sense for most people for three reason : ( 1 ) Off-the-grid system be much more expensive because you have to buy a bunch of battery , ( 2 ) You do n't get the big federal tax credit and ( 3 ) You do n't get to take advantage of sell power to the grid at peak rate and buy it back at off- peak rate . Can I get solar if I be a renter or in a condo-HOA situation ? That be a tough one . But it do seem to be get easy each year . Here be an article on a new law California pass in 2011 that make it easy . Is my roof right for solar ? First thing you need to know be how much sun your roof get . This online tool will give you a general idea . But the only precise way to measure be with a semi-fancy tool like a SunEye while standing on your roof . Most solar company do this a part of their free estimate . You then get a number ; my roof get 90 percent sun exposure on average throughout the year and be in a good area for sun ( not a good a the Mojave Desert but way well than most of the world ) . Once you get the reading , you then have to decide how much sun in enough . Germany get less sun than Seattle but they have be the big installer of solar in the last ten year . It all come down to you decide how much power production justifies the cost of the system . Can solar panel be recycle ? Yes . But so far , their have not be much solar panel recycle just because even panel that be instal in the 70 's be still produce power . Here be a good article on solar panel recycle . Any extra cost ? If your roof be in bad or mediocre shape you may need to upgrade it to install solar . Our roof be just bad enough that we decide to re-roof . We use a TPO cool roof which will keep our house cooler in the summer because the material reflect 95 percent of the sunny energy . The material be wild it be basically like our entire roof be now a slip n ' slide or river raft or haul bag . Another cost may be an upgrade to your electrical system . If you have a super old house ( like we do ) you may need some upgrade to your panel . We have to pay about $ 200 , which seem very reasonable . Ask me question ! I would be psyched to answer any question folk have about this . Please post below or message me . And please check out my Best Portable Solar Panel Review . I love the process of go solar and will be happy to help others do the same . Next Next project be to figure out how I can get solar panel on my Lake Tahoe Vacation Rentals . I be go to be look into a solar lease because that be the only way I can figure out to get the tax credit . If anyone know about get credit for what the IRS considers `` lodge '' please send me a note . I also just make a solar power electric bike . Update After 6 Months Just come on the 6 month anniversary of own solar panel : 1 ) You can see just how much power we be generate at this link . It be update every 15 minute 24/7 . If you see a panel , not perform , send me an email and I will jump up on the roof and clear my neighbor kite . Our solar panel system . Credit : Chris McNamara 2 ) We be get $ $ . We buy more solar panel than we need to cover our bill . So every month we be get a check ( actually it be just a credit and you get one big check at the end of the year ) . This month credit be for over $ 100 . yeee haw ! 3 ) Our meter spin backwards big time ! When we get our panel , PGE give u a new meter that start at 000000 . It immediately start spin backward ( ok , it digital so there be no spinning but it count backwards ) . As you can see below , we have now sell back over 1100 KWH of excess power to the grid . This reminds me of that scene in Ferris Bueller 's Day Off where they put the Ferrari on a stand to try and get the mile to go back . But in our case , it actually work ! Meters `` progress '' after a 4 month . Credit : Chris McNamara 4 ) The panel generate a surprising amount of power when it be cloudy or rain . It be only 40-60 % of the power generate when totally sunny . But still impressive . And a good reminder to wear sunscreen even when cloudy . Update on 7/20/13 Just get an all electric Fiat 500e so that I can drive off the power from my solar panel ! Just get the Fiat 500e electric car ... charge off the solar panel right now ! Credit : Chris McNamara The car , when combine with a special charging rate and load of incentive be basically free . Here be an article from the Wall Street Journal http : //online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323982704578453123010639156.html December 2013 Update Since we be consume more juice with the electric car , just up the system by 50 % . Now up to 5 KW ( 21 panel ) and again produce more than we use . Sun farming be addictive ! More solar panel on the home / office Credit : Chris McNamara Article Views : 24,735 Chris McNamara About the Author Climbing Magazine once compute that three percent of Chris McNamaras life on Earth have be spend on the face of El Capitan an accomplishment that left friend and family ponder Chriss sanity . He have climb El Capitan more than 70 time and hold nine big wall speed climb record . In 1998 Chris do the first Girdle Traverse of El Capitan , an epic 75-pitch route that beg the question , Why ? Outside Magazine call Chris one of the world fine aid climber . He be the winner of the 1999 Bates Award from the American Alpine Club and founder of the American Safe Climbing Association , a nonprofit group that have replace over 5000 dangerous anchor bolt . He be a graduate of UC Berkeley and serve on the board of the ASCA and the Rowell Legacy Committee . He have a rarely update adventure journal , maintain BASEjumpingmovies.com , and also run a Lake Tahoe home rental business . Comments Did you like this article ? Got something to say ? Do n't hold back ... Comment on this article Dos XX Trad climber Los Angeles , CA Feb 2 , 2012 - 04:06pm PT This be really cool , Chris ! Congrats on realize a dream , and be kinder to the planet all at the same time ! Mungeclimber Trad climber Nothing creative to say Feb 2 , 2012 - 04:20pm PT For collective housing , like townhouses/condos , be there any study show the efficiency/cost benefit of supplement power with solar there in that scenario ? HOA 's do n't seem willing to shift to solar , e.g . even just to power pool filter , fountain pump , etc. , without some sense that it 's go to reduce cost . Good info on the inverter , I do n't know that . We would be partially shade . thx ! Crimpergirl Sport climber Boulder , Colorado ! Feb 2 , 2012 - 04:22pm PT Neat . Thanks for all the info ! SteveW Trad climber The state of confusion Feb 2 , 2012 - 04:26pm PT Nice job , Chris . I 've have my system for 5 year now , and it 's one of the best thing I 've ever do . I have literally no electric bill . The power I generate for my house be all free from el sol ! matty Trad climber under the sea Feb 2 , 2012 - 05:30pm PT Thanks Chris , lot of good useful info that will make people question what they 're currently do . I like learn about new stuff . QITNL climber Feb 2 , 2012 - 05:41pm PT Awesome ! eKat climber Feb 2 , 2012 - 05:44pm PT ( I be a weird kid ) WEIRD IS WORTH IT ! : - ) xo eK @ P.S . TFPU ! Ghost climber A long way from where I start Feb 2 , 2012 - 05:45pm PT Hmmm . If I install solar panel on my roof , will that make the sun shine on my house in Seattle ? Batrock Trad climber Burbank Feb 2 , 2012 - 06:00pm PT Maybe I miss it but be you feed back into the grid or be you off the grid ? caughtinside Social climber Oakland , CA Feb 2 , 2012 - 06:12pm PT Would you be willing to share the cost of that system ? Like out of pocket day one , before you get the credit . Ken M Mountain climber Los Angeles , Ca Feb 2 , 2012 - 07:19pm PT Outstanding and inspirational ! bobinc Trad climber Portland , Or Feb 2 , 2012 - 07:37pm PT Chris- do you also have solar hot water ? Dingus McGee Social climber Where Safety trump Leaving No Trace Feb 2 , 2012 - 07:38pm PT Chris , when I be put solar panel on my van I be look for MCI socket at the wholesale electrician supply . The salesman tell me you would not see solar around in few year after the gov rebate end . I be glad to see you get in under the wire . bluering Trad climber Santa Clara , CA Feb 2 , 2012 - 07:50pm PT As much a I really dislike the over-hyped Green movement , have solar panel on your house be very practical in the long run , a you point out , Chris . Businesses could also benefit . When there be n't enough power from the sun , you simply divert back to 'the grid ' . It 's a no-brainer , really . Especially in the long run . I be look to buy a house soon and will investigate the idea for my particular need . Back in the early 80 's my Dad have solar panel that be strictly devote to heating our backyard pool in San Ramon . Mike Bolte Trad climber Planet Earth Feb 2 , 2012 - 08:05pm PT we put a 3.2KW system on our house four year ago . Pre-microinverters so all 14 panel fee to a single inverter . Makes it a little hard to upgrade a we match the max panel output to the max inverter rating . Love having the system on the house . EDIT : caughtinside , the guy who we contract to install our system handle all the rebate himself so out of pocket be discount by that amount . At the time that took a $ 27k total down to $ 22k and we get another $ 4k back in tax saving . sullly Gym climber Feb 3 , 2012 - 06:54am PT Cool Chris . Plus they be low profile - not tacky from the street . Sounds like someone 's getting domesticate . My guess be the Mcpitter-patter of tiny foot be n't too far off . PAUL SOUZA Trad climber Central Valley , CA Feb 2 , 2012 - 09:33pm PT Nice TR Chris ! Thanks for the info ! I have n't do any research into solar panel , but what about disposal of use panel ? Can they be recycle ? Charlie D . Trad climber Western Slope , Tahoe Sierra Feb 2 , 2012 - 09:37pm PT Good job , nice clean installation over what look like a single ply cool roof which help with energy use reduction along with those solar tube for interior day-lighting . A good example for all of u who drive or fly manically to the mountain range of the world . An appropriate off-set from the fossil fuel we consume be climber and skier . Thanks for post Chris , we should all follow your example or move and stay put ! Sorry for the wine induce rant , I must remind myself hipocracy be simply part of the human condition . Berg Heil and the Earth too ! Cheers ! Charlie D . damo62 Social climber Brisbane Feb 2 , 2012 - 09:43pm PT Congrats Chris , A wise investment . I be curious about your upgrade to your electrical system . What do you upgrade to and be that mandate by the utility company ( pg & e ) ? Roxy Trad climber CA Central Coast Feb 2 , 2012 - 10:05pm PT Now there 's an article I 'll Fwd to my landlord . the house get a new roof late last year ... you never know . thanks for such a detailed report ! High Fructose Corn Spirit Gym climber Feb 2 , 2012 - 10:14pm PT Proud ! Sierra Ledge Rat Mountain climber Old and Broken Down in Appalachia Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:40am PT Until you can convince soccer mom that it 's cool the have solar panel on their house , the idea be dead . Most of these bimbo just want their white picket fence and perfect grass and 2.5 kid . Also many homeowner 's restriction prohibit the installation of solar panel . The satellite industry have the same problem but they have Congress on their side and correct that problem . The coal and gas industry be not on the side of local-use solar energy , and so they will be everything to keep Congress from change the status quo . Good luck , enjoy . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 3 , 2012 - 02:19am PT Great stuff . Love all the comment and question . I just add a video and answer many of the question you guy ask . Please fire more . I do n't have solar hot water just because I could n't find a cost-effective way to do it without instal it myself ... and I do n't want to punch hole in my perfect new haul-bag-roof ! But down the road I 'll try and figure out how to make it happen . Dingus , the major tax credit , the 30 % federal tax credit be here till 2016 . The big credit that just expire be the tax grant for business and a some kind of accelerated depreciation . But for homeowner , the credit be here for a few more year at least . But even once the credit expire , solar will survive , and maybe even thrive . Panel cost have come down 50-80 % in just the last year . If you assume price decline will continue at the same rate they have for the last ten year , then in only a few year , solar will be price competitive without rebate . Then , the main issue will be that there be plenty of cheap solar generation and not enough ways to store the energy a a base load power source . Storage be the big hurdle for wind and solar to get massive adoption at utility scale in the future . Here be a pretty cool article by Vinod Khosla on the future of alternative energy ( PDF ) Matt Trad climber it 's all turtle , all the way dooowwwwwnn ! ! ! ! ! Feb 3 , 2012 - 03:01am PT Thanks Chris ! Great post . I will be email you sometime soon for some specific , but this be a GREAT community service on your part- so mad prop to you ! Also , I suggest chat with Tom Addison about hot water , seriously . gimmeslack Trad climber VA Feb 3 , 2012 - 06:01am PT Superb summary and analysis . TFPU ! ! cowpoke climber Feb 3 , 2012 - 07:52am PT Very cool . We be look into the panel lease program in MA . Here 's how the program work : A homeowner call one of the company to ass the potential for solar at the home and install panel . A one-time , upfront fee of about $ 1,000 be charge , and the homeowner also be give an 18-year locked-in rate for energy the panel generate . That rate will be comparable to , or less than , what utility charge , accord to the company involve . If the homeowner use more energy than the panel produce , they then pay the utility it rate for the electricity . http : //www.boston.com/lifestyle/green/articles/2009/05/24/sun_for_rent/ Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 3 , 2012 - 10:56am PT Yo Matt , yeah hit me up . I will gladly give more info to folk who be seriously consider go solar . Maybe ill make an exhaustive video or check list that show the whole process from start to finish . And yes , I talk to Tom about solar hot water . He shop hard , get a great price on the component , and then instal it himself . I be not that handy and all the bid i have receive be pretty expensive . philo Trad climber Is that the light at the end of the tunnel or a tr Feb 3 , 2012 - 11:09am PT Thanks CMac for help to show the way and lead by example . JacobMichals Social climber Petaluma Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:19pm PT @ Chris Thank you for invest in the planet . I hope the solar array not only meet , but exceed your expectation : ) . Jacob Enphase Energy The user formerly know a stzzo climber Kent Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:27pm PT Two thumb up ! I really like the FAQ . pFranzen Boulder climber Portland , OR Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:31pm PT Thanks for the writeup Chris ! For some reason there be a real lack of in-depth case study for home solar installation . It would be great if you could keep this update with monthly number on power use , power generate , etc . I be probably go to be buy a home in Arizona this year , and solar be at the top of my list for improvement . lostinshanghai Social climber someplace Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:52pm PT Chris , Nice to see someone with future in mind . Couple of thing solar be different than just turn it off if a with local utility company . If for some reason grid go down because neighbor pole or street/block be down or storm shuts their system down there be thing you need to do for safety and make sure your system be up and run in case you be on a climb or gone for a couple of day and just find out what happen to my solar and no light ? Seems like you might have it cover since you have do homework on the subject . Installer might have leave literature and do not cover all the base . Also on circuit module the safety write be on the side which no one can see . 2012 code revision will be write to put inside panel to read . Firemen go nut see the panel on top if they have to open or cut a hole in the roof . So make sure to have a copy where youre wire inside or interior partition be if they need access to your house . Normal condition without solar when you cut the electricity you have no live energy . Solar you still do have an energize state and will create an arc flash hazard which can kill or fry him . Same with disconnect your connector to the panel will give off an arc if you turn system off . Noticed on your photo no warning . Sure you have Arc-Fault Circuit protection [ Direct Current built in , problem need to be manually restart . Like I say you could be go for a week come back and lose all your juice . Any chance to provide more photo : Did you take photo during installment [ beginning to end ] Solar Module Combo box or what you be use [ separate to tie in with give power back to the utility co. , ground system [ On roof or to the ground ] , switch or circuit breaker , Safety or warn sign . Using Batteries for storage ? Labels , label and safety . NFPA [ National Fire Protection Association ] be release their 2012 National Electrical Code for Photovoltaics . So go to their web site . Added quite a few from their 2011 . Lessions learn . necplus.org be another and will be available there a well . Other thing be nice having apps to phone . Also you mention shade in winter what about summer ? They have an apps a well that tell you where and how much you might loose . WBraun climber Feb 3 , 2012 - 12:55pm PT There ' too much information miss here Chris . How be you feed your panel ? With battery or straight through the inverter with no battery ? What battery do you have ? Manufacturer , size , make , configuration etc ? How be your system integrate into your house infrastructure ? It would be nice to see the schematic of the whole setup . gonzo chemist climber the east coast , for now . Feb 3 , 2012 - 01:42pm PT Awesome ! ! If I ever have a home in SoCal , AZ , or NM , I 'd love to do something like this . small fun-fact : Supertopo member 'Darshalu ' be a test engineer at Enphase ( the company that make CMac 's microinverters ) . darshahlu Trad climber Irvine , CA Feb 3 , 2012 - 02:40pm PT Heck ya Chris ! Good on you . PS : I work for Enphase . I 'm hurtin . . . Ice climber midwest Feb 3 , 2012 - 02:46pm PT Nice article and good info . Thinking/planning on building in the Black Hills within a few year , this be good stuff to keep in mind ! HighTraverse Trad climber Bay Area Feb 3 , 2012 - 06:58pm PT Hmmm . If I install solar panel on my roof , will that make the sun shine on my house in Seattle ? That 's why Chris include the link to the solar insolation ( how much sun hit your house ) computer . With 16 panel , I could generate 2.8KW at full sun and I 've get a garage roof with excellent sun exposure about 3/4 of summer daylight hour . My problem be my electric bill be already down to $ 85 per month so here in the Santa Cruz mtns the cost/payback computation come up with about 12 year to break even . I 'll run the computation again at different number of panel . However I 'll soon be compute the cost/payback for a plugin hybrid car . Which will be MUCH well . Maybe by 2013 it will make sense . Chris : thanks for your excellent and informative report . Your link reference be a great starting point . micronut Trad climber Fresno/Clovis , ca Feb 3 , 2012 - 07:08pm PT Super cool man . Thanks for the effort you put into this . Great insight and a big help . I get ta go shut off some light . jstan climber Feb 3 , 2012 - 09:53pm PT Great thread ! Lost : I understand solar system be configure to shut down whenever power from the grid be off . This so that linemen wo n't get fry . What you report seems to contradict this ? Collaterally I do n't see why this be even need . You could put a relay power by the grid so that when grid be down the system be entirely disconnect but be still operate for the customer . When the linemen bring up the grid they presumably will already be hand off . Must be stuff go on here with which I be not familiar . Mike Bolte Trad climber Planet Earth Feb 3 , 2012 - 10:43pm PT Chris can answer for himself , but I 'll bet he have no battery and that he ca n't use his system when the grid go down . By far the most common system have panel generate current when the sun be shin that be convert to 120hz AC with an inverter , and this feed to the grid via a meter that run two way : if you be generate more power than you be use at any moment , the meter run backward and vice versa . So , you do n't directly use any of the power your system generates and if the grid go down , you do too . EDIT : Ah , I see Chris add a bunch of ( excellent ) info . He be indeed grid-tied . guido Trad climber Santa Cruz/New Zealand/South Pacific Feb 4 , 2012 - 03:01pm PT Excellent posting Chris-We have be use solar panel on our boat since the early 80 and have watch the evolution of thin , safe-to-walk-on panel and some of the problem inherent with them . Key thing with any solar panel be to go with a reputable and establish company that have a long term warranty and you hope will be around if you have any problem . Manufacturer be the key ! Reputation be the key ! Ginormous amount of poor panel on the market . We can basically run the boat completely from our 8 panel and that includes a 12 volt freezer and a separate 12 volt refrigerator . Boat system can suck up a lot of power , so we have three bank of two each 6 volt deep-cycle Trojan Golf Cart batteries , with a capacity of 675 am hour at 12 volt . Rarely ever have to run our VW diesel engine to top up the charge . We use deep cycle lead acid battery because they be the most reliable . Not susceptible to overcharge damage , and easy to replace a single battery if you be in Timbuktu and some cell go bye bye . Yes . it be a hassle to top up with water on a regular basis but it allow you to be more in tune with your charging system overall . The follow will illustrate my emphasis on choosing a reliable manufacturer . In 2004 we place 4 large panel on the cabin top from a well know German company call Solara . Efficient , high voltage panel that could take a slight deck camber for mounting , safe to walk on and productive even with partial shading . Within two year I notice a slight intrusion of water into the membrane . Year three , all the panel have significant water intrusion and thing be not look good . To make a long story short : I have to tear all the panel off and toss them . Of course we be situate in a remote part of the South Pacific and it would be month before we get to New Zealand . Thus begin a two year battle with the company to get replacement . Finally , they send new panel to replace the `` defective '' one . After refairing the cabin top from the damage from the `` defective '' panel we next have to paint the entire area before we could install the new panel . Well , two year later the game start over when I again notice a slight water intrusion into one of the new panel . Endless letter , e-mail and threat over the past two year have result in zero cooperation , even though the company , Solara , state it be there faulty quality control that be responsible . SolaraSucks ! We also have 4 Solarex thin , solar panel on the Radar Arch and they have be fantastic with no problem . Six 6 volt deep cycle Trojan Golf Cart lead acid set up for three bank of 12 volt-675 amphr Credit : guido Charging electronics etc ... ... ... ... ... . Credit : guido Fuse system for both bank and regulator . Credit : guido 4 large Solara panel on the cabin top . Yes you can walk on them . Credit : guido Oops , a wee bit of condensation in the panel . Not too worry mate ! Credit : guido Time to worry mate . Credit : guido Getting ugly . Credit : guido Nice mess on the cabin top . Credit : guido 4 fantastic Solarex MSX thin panel on the radar arch . Credit : guido Credit : guido Second batch of Solara panels-We have a problem here . Credit : guido Time for a domain name Guido- Credit : guido Credit : guido Fish Finder Social climber Feb 4 , 2012 - 09:44am PT Nice enthusiasm and interest Chris . Thanks for the info and I look forward to the ten year follow-up . cliffhanger Trad climber California Feb 4 , 2012 - 01:37pm PT Excellent . Thanks . Save money and save the planet , great way to go . WBraun climber Feb 4 , 2012 - 01:49pm PT Thanks guido for your post above . This be the kind of information and stuff that 's need for this technology . Not the continuous useless mantra we 're save the planet and no real practical information . Conrad climber Feb 4 , 2012 - 05:05pm PT Nice . One step at a time . BASE104 Social climber An Oil Field Feb 12 , 2012 - 10:12am PT I build a little off the grid setup that I use for the summer and fall . It be just light and electronics , so it do n't need to be that big . I buy two really big 6 watt battery and a single 400 watt panel . It be n't that much . For the electronics you have to have a pure sine wave inverter . I score one that could handle far more current than my system . I buy it at Inverters R Us , on the web . I manage to buy everything but the battery on the web for about 60 % of what the local retail solar guy be charge . There be a glut of panel right now , and they be cheap . It really be excite to learn how much current you need for each device . Lights be nothing if you go LED or compact flourescent , which you should be do anyway . Hey . It be n't the oil company who hate solar . Almost all electricty that come from fossil fuel be coal . The natural gas company have be try like crazy to use it a a generating fuel for decade . Even though there be a total glut of natural gas right now , and price be incredibly low , we have coal fire plant in Oklahoma and Texas . That really piss off the oil company . Coal be the filthy of all fossil fuel . Natural gas be the clean in not only emission like mercury , but also in carbon per BTU . The reason that most of our computer be get our juice from coal right now be that it be a very efficient generating fuel . So if you go solar , you be use less COAL . Since natural gas be all home grown , it do n't follow the same price a oil , which be extremely high right now . Local fleet like UPS and others go to natural gas vehicle a long time ago . The problem be that there be no infrastructure . If just truck move to natural gas , our oil import would be far less , and we could use natural gas a a transition fuel to clean technology . There be only so much natural gas . If we go to natural gas for transportation , we would n't need all of those Nimitz class aircraft carrier in the Middle East . Trust me . The U.S. oil company do n't have nearly a much political clout a the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia . If they want to punish alternative , which they will some day , they will open the spigot and low oil price . Making alternative much more expensive . Solar be really cool , though , and a good investment that will pay out in less than ten year . Just do n't think that burn wood for heat be cool . Wood be bad than coal . Switch to Propane if you have no option other than electricity . Propane come from natural gas anyway . You have to be in the energy industry to truly appreciate how foolish we be about energy . You can drill baby drill all you want and not make a dent in oil . Gas be different . The only book worth reading on the topic of oil be The Prize . Oil=Power , and by power , I mean military and economic power . Our addiction to oil be bad for many reason . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 4 , 2012 - 08:59pm PT No battery for my system . It all go straight to the grid . Werner , i will look for the diagram of the install . Here be all the info on the Sharp panel ( PDF ) I use I have not read The Prize - I will add it to the list . But i do read Daniel Yergin 's late book , The Quest which I think be pretty illuminate on history of energy . I read A LOT of other book and if people be interested I could give a summary of which one I like and which one be rant with an agenda . High Fructose Corn Spirit Gym climber Feb 4 , 2012 - 08:53pm PT pretty illuminate on history of energy . I read A LOT of other book and if people be interested I could give a summary of which one I like and which one be rant with an agenda . Absolutely . lostinshanghai Social climber someplace Feb 4 , 2012 - 08:48pm PT Jstan : A couple of web site that describe the issue , I be a member of both ICC [ International Code Council ] and NFPA and sit in committee meeting and write paper . Would have to get a hold of them for me to release code requirement due to copyright which they would say no problem a long a I be not get pay for consulting but would be not a problem if you want the # can produce but just to give you an idea : Also just to complicate the problem choose the right inspector be critical and I mean critical so do not take their word that it pass . Grounding be the big issue , also access need to be out side and not interior . Again I will say inspector [ not all ] be the same and do not know what they be do a in construction so need to be careful in choosing system . You can do yourself suggest take a class : recommend NFPA course . http : //www.nfpa.org/assets/files/pdf/research/fftacticssolarpower.pdf http : //www.solaredge.com/files/pdfs/se_safety_application_note.pdf osfm.fire.ca.gov have a fire safety for solar . PDF ? It be somewhere on their site but if you need it can provide . ICC and NFPA regulate . Which Republicans hate . Sorry if some dy because you fu # hed up you should be accountable . Hey ! That be what keep lawyer employ . Here be just a start : InterNACHI inspector may want to check for the follow design element that will prevent PV module from exacerbate the danger of a house fire : Photovoltaic system should be instal and subsequently inspect regularly by a qualified professional . PV system should be label in a clear and systematic manner to ensure that technician and firefighter can quickly and easily identify key element of the system . The main service disconnect panel should be clearly label on the outside cover , if it be operable from the outside without open . Both interior and exterior portion of live conduit should be label every 10 foot . Batteries should also be clearly label . A rooftop shutoff valve should be present . This switch could be utilize to disable the direct current running from the solar panel through the conduit . The roof should have sufficient pathway and perimeter space around the PV modules so that inspector and firefighter can traverse the roof safely . There should be a section of the roof leave vacant so that it may be ventilate , if necessary . Check for damage from rodent and other pest , which could compromise wire or insulation . There should be an integrated arc-fault detection device present in the solar panel , which shuts down individual panel in the case of a malfunction , such a arcing . During the permitting process when the PV system be instal , the local fire department should be give a set of the plan to refer to in case of emergency . In summary , photovoltaic solar panel rarely cause house fire directly , but the potential hazard they pose in the event of a house fire can be mitigate with proper installation and preparation . From Solar Panel Fires and Electrical Hazards - InterNACHI http : //www.nachi.org/solar-panel-fire-electrical-hazards.htm # ixzz1lSlsTpun So Google the problem there be a lot of the problem you say I be incorrect or wrong . Save me a lot of time . Do the home work . Be in the office this week and provide soom APPs to u on apple phone that be great , so use contractor you can say `` how much '' and you can say `` Fu % k you '' . I charge $ 300.00 an hour so just give you a freebee . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 4 , 2012 - 09:24pm PT Here be all the book I have read on energy Really Good Oil on the brain The Quest The Homeowner 's Handbook to Energy Efficiency Not a Gas Station Good Bottled Lightning Climate Capitalism Energy Efficiency Upgrades The End of Oil Energy Alternatives : oppose viewpoint Bottled Lightning Revolution in a Bottle Not sure I would recommend The Party 's Over Crossing the Rubicon Power Hungry And a few other good eco book Biodiesel Biodiesel America Lolli Mountain climber ... silence , like a cancer grow Feb 4 , 2012 - 09:24pm PT interest . WBraun climber Feb 4 , 2012 - 09:35pm PT Chris I post a reply hit send , and then it disappear . What kind of web site be this place : - ) Anyways I want to say thanks and hope to see your setup here . I 'm really interested ... . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 4 , 2012 - 09:58pm PT Hey Werner , here be the file on the techy detail of the system . These be the plan for when we have 13 panel . We end up with 14 panel so the number be now different . Equipment Details More detail But the photo be blurry ... i will make a PDF in a second damo62 Social climber Brisbane Feb 4 , 2012 - 10:24pm PT Chris , why do you have to upgrade your exist electrical service ? Thanks . the Fet climber Tu-Tok-A-Nu-La Feb 4 , 2012 - 11:49pm PT Great post . Thanks for share . Debating a system too . Mighty Hiker climber Outside the Asylum Feb 5 , 2012 - 01:32am PT Thanks , everyone - interesting discussion . Sort of related , there be a big article in our paper today about B.C . 's potential for wind generate power , and how it 's nearly down to hydro price here . We use deep cycle lead acid battery because they be the most reliable . Not susceptible to overcharge damage , and easy to replace a single battery if you be in Timbuktu and some cell go bye bye . guido , if your boat have battery trouble in Timbuktu , look on the bright side - it ca n't sink any time soon . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 5 , 2012 - 12:22pm PT The electrical upgrade be because my house be build in 1930 and there be some ungrounded wire near the panel and other general old sketchyness . At least I think that be what be go on . It do n't take much time or money to fix . Probably need to be do anyway . WBraun climber Feb 5 , 2012 - 12:26pm PT Thanks again Chris . Everything be clear now . I have n't be follow the recent development in the solar field . The micro-inverters idea be new to me and now it make sense how the system be tie into the infrastructure . The micro-inverters automatically shut down if the outside grid shuts down to prevent the service linemen from get fry . Unless there be a disconnect from the main your solar system will be shut down too . Drawback to a system without storage battery be you 're not completely independent . But ! ! ! it 's still a good system in an urban set . The grid synchronize solar power system be awesome and should be implement viral . It should go all out in the USA and there 's no reason not to ... Mattq331 Mountain climber Boulder/UK Feb 5 , 2012 - 01:05pm PT Hi Chris , Many thanks for all this great information . I 'm about to rip the roof off our house in Boulder , and am consider both solar and the white roofing material . Do you have any number on the saving from go white ? I hear it be a wash - saving in summer be balance out by loss of warming during winter ? cheer . Matt Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 5 , 2012 - 01:23pm PT I do n't have the exact number on the roofing . For u it be an easy decision because we do n't have AC and the summer can get hot in San Anselmo . Also , it be the same price to do tar and gravel vs. going over the exist roof with the white TPO material . If you be completely remove the roof , then i could see how maybe the TPO be more expensive . Here be the wiki cool roof article and here be The Straight Dope on painting your roof white . From what I have read , cool roof really make sense in any climate where you use a lot of AC . If you live in a colder climate , then there be less benefit and less passive heat gain to your home in the winter . NorCalNomad Trad climber San Francisco Feb 5 , 2012 - 10:20pm PT Coming from Marin myself I remember when PG & E would n't buy back any of your power , the reason why my parent do n't put solar panel on when we get roof work done ( and the low efficiency at that time ) . Glad to see that there be an even well alternative than selling it to PG & E Jim Clipper climber from : forest to tree farm Feb 5 , 2012 - 11:19pm PT Tres impress ! ! ! I 'd like to do more , and the info . be useful . Also , I 'm not sure , but I think these guy , locate in Boulder , build a house in the Rockies at about 7k ft . It be largely , if not entirely off the grid . Finally , I think they grow banana . http : //www.rmi.org/ http : //www.rmi.org/Amory % 27s+Private+Residence Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 6 , 2012 - 12:55am PT I forget to add RMI new book Reinventing Fire to my recommend book list . I especially like the RMI collaboration on the Empire State Building efficiency upgrade . A 13 million dollar investment in efficiency upgrade will save the building $ 4.4 million a year . Now that be a pretty amaze return on investment ( and the building now need 38 % less energy ) . lostinshanghai Social climber someplace Feb 6 , 2012 - 05:38pm PT Couple of other book Photovoltaics Systems second edition ATP SunWise Solar Electric Products catalog free can download catalog Solmetric Site Evaluation and System Design . If you do not have I phone but best or cheap be use Apps for Smart phone just aim towards sun and will give info on angle or tilt for the panel , best location , what happens with shade , temperature and more plus cheap . Spray-on solar panel develop at U and A [ Canada ] be promise and windows be in the work a well from different company . Thickness of a hair . www.cbc.ca/ ... /edmonton/story/2011/08/12/edm-spray-on-solar-cells.html also www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/science_nation/sprayonsolar.jsp here in the state As for micro-converters issue colour cod need to change and will be update since the blue ring attache to the other blue coloured for connection . Problem if you do not know what you be do you end up connect positive to positive . So change be in the work to correct it . Credit : lostinshanghai Left connector sightly can see the blue ring in middle Credit : lostinshanghai right connector when open have blue ring a well [ blurry photo ] Credit : lostinshanghai Credit : lostinshanghai Notice wording on side of fuse or circuit assembly warn need to post on inner panel a well . `` Do not open under load '' With these configerations how could you read it so will be change . Credit : lostinshanghai Credit : lostinshanghai Ken M Mountain climber Los Angeles , Ca Feb 7 , 2012 - 02:04am PT Oddly enough , I attend a panel discussion tonite entitle : Is Californias Solar Gold Rush Destined to Fail ? I 'll post the link to the video of it tomorrow . Here 's the info on it : Moderated by Warren Olney , host of 89.9 KCRW 's Which Way , L.A. ? and To The Point California history be a tale of crazed grab : for gold , for oil , for fame , for make weapon and plane . Today , the state be in the midst of a solar energy frenzy . Solar panel materialize on rooftop , on coastal mountain , and in massive array in the state desert . The state and federal government be offer incentive to push the rush . Will the rapid move to solar power produce new job , new industry , and clean and cheap energy ? Or do the pace and nature of the rush pose threat to the economy , ecosystem , and government budget ? Lisa Margonelli , director of the Energy Policy Initiative at the New America Foundation , Daniel M. Kammen , director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory , Ron Nichols , general manager of the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power , and Jim Cahill , SolarCitys regional operating director , visit Zcalo to discuss whether solar power in California be a passing fad or a lasting innovation . Margonelli write an interesting article , on point : http : //zocalopublicsquare.org/thepublicsquare/2012/02/01/solar-not-just-for-tinfoil-hatters-anymore/read/nexus/ Solar : Not Just For Tinfoil-Hatters Anymore But Most Of Our Debates About It Miss the Point by Lisa Margonelli Since 2007 , California have experience a solar boom . Photovoltaic panel rest on 107,159 rooftop , a of this writing ( the number be update here every Wednesday ) . Driven by incentive that be bankroll by every Californian who pay a utility bill , Californians now have more than one Gigawatt of solar capacity instal over our head Thats a lot : one Gigawatt be roughly the size of one of the state four nuclear power plant , although solar PV panel do not produce power at the steady , even rate that nuke do . California recently approve 11 separate solar power plant , big installation of mirror and equipment that can concentrate the sun heat to produce power . If build , those 11 plant will have a capacity of 4.2 Gigawatts . The cumulative impact of all of this buildingdriven by federal investment tax credit and state mandate to generate a third of the state power from renewable source by 2033is astonish . In short order , solar could lose it tinfoil-hat-California-dream aura to become the Golden States new normal . This be a stunning triumph of all the thing we Californians hold dear : idealistic bureaucrat , an action-hero governor , starry-eyed inventor , entrepreneurial environmentalist , venture capitalist , and thousand of big and small business and homeowner who want to be part of the future . But will it last ? California have be on the solar cutting edge before . In the 1980s , the state produce 95 percent of the world solar power . One company , LUZ International , design solar thermal power plant and manage to reduce the price of generate a solar kilowatt hour of power by two-thirds between 1984 and 1989 . But by 1991 , LUZ be bankrupt . The problem wasnt the technology : LUZs plant be still gleam away in Kramer Junction and Harper Lake for the utility NextEra Energy Resources . What do LUZ in be fall energy price , unpredictable political support for the tax incentive that keep investor in the game , and the lack of a big-picture push to make solar a fundamental pillar of energy security . Unfortunately , the thing that killed LUZ be still around . Forecasts of fall natural gas price would make solar energy less competitive . Solyndra have ensure dwindle political support . And we still dont have a national greenhouse gas policy or a carbon tax that would ensconce solar a a core of our electric portfolio . Is there a cautionary tale here ? Or be LUZ just an artifact of the past ? The first person I call be Michael Lotker , LUZs former VP of Business Development . He write a report on the demise of LUZ publish by Sandia National Laboratories in 1991 . For a report , it a rip yarn of how high energy pricescombined with an activist California Public Utilities Commission and government initiativeshelped make room for solar entrepreneur in Californias energy market . Investors be attract by federal Energy Tax Credits while state property tax exemption help reduce cost . LUZs power plant look vaguely like space station or Martian landing pad . Big circle of mirror concentrate solar heat , while extensive pipe system carry hot fluid to the generator . Although the engineer manage to reduce the cost of solar power , energy price fell even fast : fossil-fuel price drop by 78 percent between 1981 and 1991 . Meanwhile , the political support for solar power evaporate . Congress start drag it foot on the yearly renewal of the Energy Tax Credit , and 1990s renewal last only nine month . This made financing perilous . Then , in 1991 , Californias governor veto the property tax exemption . Although it be ultimately reinstate , the credit be label controversial . I reach Lotker , whos leave solar power to become a rabbi , while he be help with a funeral . He remember the day of try to secure political support . It be two emergency every year , he tell me . The first be get the new plant online . The other be get the credit . It be always life or death and it make our cost much high . Lotker describe many barrier to the company success . There be false confidence in the availability of renewable energyand a lack of commitment to take the step to make solar competitive with other form of power , include putting a price on pollution or the hidden cost of conventional power generation . I always think support for these [ step ] be a mile wide and an inch deep , he say . Everyone love them but no one would fight to the death . Thirty year ago , Lotker and his compatriot at LUZ look at bombing range in Nevada and imagine power the whole U.S. with concentrated solar thermal power from them , but inch deep support cut their small effort off at the knee . Today Rabbi Lotker drive by the old plant occasionally and say he feel like a father to them , but without a carbon price solar power will lack enough support to become a major part of the grid . In the usual discussion of solar power in the medium , we focus on whether the technology work or whether it too expensive to compete . Sometimes we talk about poor management , boondoggle , or the proper role of government in helping renewable energy . Rarely do we talk about how politics invade a business model , make a risky proposition more risky . If we learn anything from the past , it should be that the dumb thing we could possibly do be to support a technology , get company go , and then yank the support so that taxpayer investment go to waste . Some of LUZs founder start a company call BrightSource , which design , develops , and sell solar power plant that use bank of precisely angle mirror to concentrate heat on a central tower to generate steam and electricity . BrightSource have contract for 2.4 Gigawatts of generation with California utility and plan to design and build several plant . BrightSources senior vice president of government relation and communication , Joe Desmond , be formerly chairman of the California Energy Commission and have hold position in the public and private sector . He be a springy intellectual with an encyclopedic enthusiasm for solar . To Desmond and those on the inside of the energy business , it obvious that the entire utility sector be the product of government regulation , incentive , and goal . But that can also be risky for a technology . Regulators sometimes get enamor of a technology with hidden barriershydrogen for examplethat then fall out of favor . And no one will forget the starkness with which the tricky relationship between politics and the grid be lay bare during the California blackout of 2000-2001 , which cost Governor Gray Davis his job . There be high consequence for the failure to manage risk , Desmond say . Desmond mention two way that risk be already embed in the solar energy landscape . First , as in the 80 , federal tax credit be an important part of get investor to pony up money for solar project . The Investment Tax Credit have be extend to 2016 , a solid timeframe that allow entrepreneur a predictable future . But a provision call Section 1603which allows those tax credit to be monetize earlymust be renew every year , and it be not renew at the end of 2011 . With shade of LUZ , the shuttering of 1603 be likely to cut private financing for solar significantly . Solyndras bankruptcy be drive the debate around renew program like 1603 , even though the loan the federal government make to the start-up be very different from the tax credit make to solar producer . Its difficult to communicate the difference in a sound bite , say Desmond . But , in many way , the problem with tax credit be old-school . The new , more interesting , more futuristic risk be the one pose by the restructuring of the grid itself . The old grid be hierarchical , with centralized power plant dispatch power at will . The new grid be a two-way flow of information and energy . Were move from centralized to distribute decision make , say Desmond . How do we manage these risk ? Regulators often play catch-up to the technology . A partially solar-powered grid will have benefit and risk we dont yet understand , and these will be combine with the risk of wind , cheap and plentiful natural gas , and a Smart Grid that make consumer and their usage part of the conversation . As the grid get more complicated , so do the regulation . BrightSource and other power company have be work on way to store energy so it can be dispatch on the grid when it need . BrightSource store heat , and then use it to generate electricity after the sun have set . Hydroelectric plant often pump water back behind a dam so they can send power onto the grid when it need . But a energy storage evolves , regulator need to decide philosophically what it be . Is it like electricity , which be a product ? Or be it more like natural gas , a fuel that can be store ? Recently the California Public Utilities Commission have have seven proceeding on energy storage . The consequence of the commission obscure decision on this issue may suddenly become visceral some screaming hot afternoon in 2015 . And no one want to be the next Gray Davis . I leave the conversation with Desmond think that while the energy cognoscenti have learn the lesson of LUZ , the rest of u have not . Were enjoy the same pointless debate about the government proper role in energy market that we have in 1991 . In the meantime , the grid and the power market have evolve from the punch-card world of 1981 to the day-trading Internet of today We need to up our game . In some way , reality have overtake the moribund conversation . A day or two after I interview Desmond , a tree fell across a power line near my house and leave me without power for almost 24 hour . I hadnt lose power in five year , and the last time it happen I be miserable . I have just a few battery flashlight , the battery in my laptop only last two hour , and the phone be dead . Not this time . Now my laptop battery last seven hour , my cell be fully receptive , and I have a cheap solar-powered LED light from Ikea . With my gas stove and the IKEA lamp I make dinner , call the utility to report the wire , and do an evening work on the computer . I even watch a movie on it . Between the battery , the 3G network , and the solar light , my evening be not too different from a night on the gridjust darker . It make me wonder if maybe we be miss the whole point about solar . I call John Perlin , a solar historian and author of From Space to Earth : The Story of Solar Electricity . Perlin be now involve in the installation of solar photovoltaics at UC Santa Barbara . He believe weve get too wrap up in try to make solar power compete with fossil fuel , distract u from it real advantage , which be that it right on the roof , independent of the grid . You dont need wire , or power plant , transformer , or dispatcher . Doing away with high-voltage line be not a Luddite view , say Perlin , Its a futuristic one . The revolution will come as we cut down the utility line and up with the rooftop . Weve put decade of effort into make solar conform to the grideven down to convert solar panel from DC power to AC power and then turn that AC power back to DC power for our TVs , computer , and electronics . House by house , weve create redundant costly equipment . Perhaps what we need instead be a more contrarian viewpoint . All our appliance be DC , trap in an AC world , say Perlin . The history of technology be full of these discontinuity story . If be go to take advantage of the discontinuity of our time , then we ( the public , policy maker , and the medium ) need to start talking about what power mean now . Lisa Margonelli be a fellow at the New America Foundation , the publisher of http : //energytrap.org , and author of Oil On the Brain : Petroleums Long , Strange Trip to Your Tank . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 8 , 2012 - 12:47am PT Great essay . I have no idea Lisa write about solar when I read , like and recommend her book Oil On The Brain in the original article ( top of this page ) Ken M Mountain climber Los Angeles , Ca Feb 8 , 2012 - 04:09am PT Here be the video of the event I be at . Very interesting . http : //zocalopublicsquare.org/full_video.php ? event_id=512 Ed Hartouni Trad climber Livermore , CA Feb 10 , 2012 - 10:51pm PT California pass Assembly Bill 32 `` Global Warming Solutions Act '' in 2006 AB32 set a goal to achieve a reduction in the state 's Green House Gas ( GHG ) production to 20 % of the 1990 level by 2050 . An article in the January 6 , 2012 issue of Science magazine contain the article `` The Technology Path to Deep Greenhouse Gas Emissions Cuts by 2050 : The Pivotal Role of Electricity '' by Williams , et al . . The abstract : `` Several state and country have adopt target for deep reduction in greenhouse gas emission by 2050 , but there have be little physically realistic modeling of the energy and economic transformation require . We analyze the infrastructure and technology path require to meet Californias goal of an 80 % reduction below 1990 level , use detailed modeling of infrastructure stock , resource constraint , and electricity system operability . We find that technically feasible level of energy efficiency and decarbonize energy supply alone be not sufficient ; widespread electrification of transportation and other sector be require . Decarbonized electricity would become the dominant form of energy supply , pose challenge and opportunity for economic growth and climate policy . This transformation demand technology that be not yet commercialize , a well a coordination of investment , technology development , and infrastructure deployment . '' They model a number of scenario to come up with one that achieve the reduction . The scenario they come up with essentially preserve the `` life style '' of the state and end up with rather minimal cost , on balance . The basic scenario be stag , with gain in energy efficiency come first , a decarbonization of electricity and then the electrification of transportation . Basically they see the need to replace our `` local '' fossil fuel use with electricity use . Then the production of electricity by technology that do n't put GHGs into the atmosphere . The large use of fossil fuel for transportation be the last technology transition , which about three quarter of the `` light duty vehicle '' transition from gasoline to electric vehicle and plug in hybrid . The goal for roof top photo-voltaics be small , but be 10 % of the electricity demand . The electricity generation would then transform from nearly 100 % Fossil + Hydro to a mix of carbon capture and storage generation , renewables and nuclear . The model allow a pricing of the scenario with the net cost the difference between the paying for the move and the saving because of the move ... the 2020 point the net cost be $ 15B ( $ 320 per person ) , 2035 $ 45B ( $ 910 ) and by 2050 $ 65B ( $ 1200 ) . California be the 6th large economy in the world and the 12th large GHG emitter . The Gross State Product ( GSP ) be about $ 1900B , today with a per caput income of $ 43,000 . We can afford it ... the concluding pargraph : `` Assuming plausible technological advance , we find that it be possible for California to achieve deep GHG reduction by 2050 with little change in life-style ( although the potential for life-style change deserves far study ) . The logical sequence of deployment for the main component of this transformation be EE [ energy efficiency ] first , follow by decarbonization of generation , follow by electrification . This transformation will require electrification of most direct us of oil and gas . In California , no single generation technology ( renewable energy , nuclear , or CCS [ carbon capture and storage ] ) can be use to decarbonize all electricity ; a mix generation portfolio be require . If it be true that the low-carbon path feature electricity , then the question be how best to mobilize investment and coordinate R & D and infrastructure rollout to achieve this end , and what climate policy modality will be most effective . If the oil economy be replace by the electric economy , it be instructive to consider the implication of the price of a decarbonized kilowatt hour replace the price of a barrel of oil a a benchmark for the overall economy . '' Chris be on the lead edge of California 's laudable goal of responsible energy use . Emon Trad climber Feb 11 , 2012 - 05:16pm PT Thanks for the awesomely informative and inspire post , CMac ! Great point about `` the clean kilowatt be the one you never use '' . I 'll just share a few highlight on our project of living in a net-zero home : In 2009 we buy a fixer-upper ( that 's put it charitably . The inspector deem it `` uninhabitable '' , but with some cajole remove that designation so we could get a mortgage ) . Initially , we just want to make it liveable , but then my husband get psyched to up the anti to strive for a net zero house . Basic rule of thumb : Put all the investment in efficiency ( insulation , windows , appliance ) until investment in efficiency become more expensive than an investment in energy generation . We bring our heating bill down about 75 % ( ! ) by installing mega-insulation and new window . Our solar panel be go up right now . We should be online sell energy to the grid in 1-2 week . The best solar potential on our lot be n't on the roof , so we end up building a structure to capture it . We debate many scenario before decide to go with PV now . After this , we 'll be look to replace our natural gas furnace with a different heating system ( ductless mini-split heat pump ) and that should get u to a net-zero house that doest not rely on fossil fuel . Just want to say : There be so many way to go with this stuff ! It be amaze the possibility and the know-how that be already out there ! People be doin ' it ! Jon Beck Trad climber Oceanside Feb 13 , 2012 - 12:56pm PT Great article , I go solar 3 year ago and love it . Thanks for be part of the solution lostinshanghai Social climber someplace Feb 13 , 2012 - 03:22pm PT Furthering education or consider future application this July conference and expo in San Francisco on just about anything to know about solar even dont throw away grass clipping in the yard and bottle you will be able soon to make your own with paint on cell . http : //www.Intersolar.us Also another source for info : www.renewableenergyworld.com WBraun climber Feb 13 , 2012 - 03:29pm PT This thread and along with practical energy efficient design for home and vehicle should replace that stupid `` Why be Republicans Wrong about Everything '' dumb sh ! t thread . slabbo Trad climber colo south Feb 13 , 2012 - 07:34pm PT I have be almost 5 year and 3 mile from the grid . they quote $ 110,000 . Being a solar tech and do your first system a your own really help . Right now batteries be at 75 % and livin ; large . Chris- i like those Enphase for GT BillF climber Mill Valley , CA Feb 22 , 2012 - 02:30pm PT I write solar information website a a hobby , and I have to say - this article nail it . Chris list a few aspect of the decision , but let me draw attention to his most important one : the price you 're pay for electricity . Here in northern California , we have tiered rate , and after consume about $ 50 of electricity in a month , we 're in tier 3 , pay 30 cent a kilowatt-hour , and tier 4 , pay 34 cent . I just bid a install here in Marin county ( yes - I 'm in solar sale ) and by agreeing to a prepaid lease , the homeowner will be get 20 year of electricity for 10 cent a kilowatt-hour . Right now he 's pay 34 cent . Look at that math . His panel could all break , utility rate could drop - every worst-case scenario could happen , and it 's still a no-brainer ! Most of u have a tougher decision . But if you 're in PG & E country , solar probably make sense . And there be lot of good company out there . Just always get a few bid . http : //www.PGEandSolar.com http : //www.IsMyRoofRight.com http : //www.HowManyPanels.com Chris - Please email me - bf @ u-write.com - I 'd like your opinion about the different solar lease you might have see . lostinshanghai Social climber someplace Feb 23 , 2012 - 12:10pm PT If anyone be the Bay area next week : Inverter and PV System Technology Forum February 27-28 , 2012 Solarpraxis will host it inaugural Inverter & PV Systems Technology Forum in San Francisco on February 27 & 28 . This event will bring together those involve in the manufacture , plan and construction of a PV system , with a specific focus on the electrical system and their interface , and how these can be optimize . CALSEIAs Executive Director will be moderate a session on Certification Requirements and Permits . More info : solarpraxis.de It be English look for conference $ 169.00 to get in . Biggie be in July WBraun climber Feb 23 , 2012 - 12:19pm PT I have a question/s . When you have the solar system with the micro inverter type setup tie into the infrastructure and no battery this mean you take power from the utility company at night ? When you have excess power from your home solar system not be use be that go to the utility company to subtract from your eventual overall usage bill from them ? look sketchy there ... Social climber Lassitude 33 Feb 23 , 2012 - 02:31pm PT Chris , thank for this very informative post . We be consider Solar for our house and this give u a lot of resource . thetennisguy Mountain climber Yuba City , CA Feb 23 , 2012 - 05:07pm PT Chris , Thanks ! ! This be a great write up ! It answer a lot of the question I have include about the new roof . Best regard ... The Alpine climber Feb 23 , 2012 - 11:57pm PT Guido - be those small solar panel on your dorade box ? For a fan ? Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 28 , 2012 - 12:49am PT We just get Array of the Week from Enphase energy - here be the story WBraun climber Feb 28 , 2012 - 01:04am PT So the bottom line with your system you need the PG & E grid at night or when you have not enough from your panel to meet your load requirement . If the PG & E grid go down your solar grid go down automatically with it to protect the outside linemen from get zap from your system . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Feb 28 , 2012 - 01:13am PT Yes , at night we buy power from the grid ( generally at a low rate ) . During the day , when it be sunny , we be almost always sell power back ( generally at a high rate ) . And if there be a power outage , we no longer send power to the grid . WBraun climber Feb 28 , 2012 - 01:24am PT Thanks Chris . I really like this system , and one can even have the option to modify it to provide power at night or if the grid go down . I know how to do that so this be great . generationfourth Trad climber Arizona Jun 7 , 2012 - 11:48am PT Chris ... Nice solar article . curious have you review any of the big Goal Zero setup ? I 've be use the Escape 150 setup and two panel for the past few month . I 've be on the road work remotely , live out of a car , and have successfully use the system to power my macbook for daily use a well a all of my electronics/lighting . Maybe I can write an article ? Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jun 7 , 2012 - 11:59am PT I have be use the Extreme 350 Adventure kit . I be actually just about to post a review on it . I have not use the escape kit . Just the Goal Zero Sherpa 120 Kit . I will create a page for the Escape kit and it would be awesome if you could post your experience . Thanks ! Ill message you soon . generationfourth Trad climber Arizona Jun 7 , 2012 - 12:06pm PT yeah that sound good , shoot me a email/message when it 's ready Jon Beck Trad climber Oceanside Jun 7 , 2012 - 01:08pm PT Great article , love the micro-inverter concept , glad to see it work well . I put in a 3kw system 4 year ago and be add a 2.4kw system I buy on craigslist for 4k dollar . The new system provide power to charge a GEM neighborhood electric vehicle ( craigslist 4k dollar ) . I be put a much a 200 mile month on the EV , drive it for free . Everyone that own a house in California should be do this . Forest Trad climber Lafayette , CO Jun 7 , 2012 - 02:47pm PT Awesome , Chris . Thanks to foresight on my father 's part and my following through once I own a home , I 've be lucky enough to live in solar power home for more than half of my life . Happy to be in one again . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jun 11 , 2012 - 02:25pm PT On a related solar note , I i just write an article on make a solar power electric bike Solar power electric bike Credit : Chris McNamara corniss chopper climber break the speed of gravity Jun 11 , 2012 - 03:55pm PT Think the bike panel would benefit power wise by be move a foot or more aft because a little a 5 % area shade of a PV will render it useless . Some extension bracket to get it out of the butt shade region and perhaps some tilt ability to adjust it for perpendicularity to the sun ray while rid and I think you 've get a winner ! blake Trad climber Berkeley , CA Jun 12 , 2012 - 01:55pm PT Chris , well do ( both installing the solar and write intelligently about it ) ! There be a whole lot of myth and misunderstanding about solar , so thank for do your part to provide solid , practical information . Your only mistake be not choose Sun Light & Power for the system design and installation . I 'm just kid , of course . SolarCraft be a great company . In fact , we have partner with them in the past and work on each others ' project , and they be definitely a quality outfit . For anyone in the Bay Area / Northern CA intrigue by the idea of go solar ( commercial or residential , PV or solar thermal ) , feel free to contact me with any question : Blake Gleason , PE Director of Engineering Sun Light & Power blake ( at ) sunlightandpower ( dot ) com Berkeley , CA Davio Trad climber San Rafael , CA . Jun 17 , 2012 - 01:17pm PT I live in Marin a well . Solar be the way . The digital PG & E meter you may want to change that out . It transmit a very high watt cell signal . No big deal really so long a your bed be not right there on the other side of the wall . Because it be not a hand hold it dose not have to follow the same law . Not trust large corp . I do a little research , no matter what they say it be not good to have a high watt signal travel through your head . PG & E transmits all the time . Take a look at this video in SF . Youtube RF radiation pulse on PG & E 'smart ' meter Dangers of Smart Meters Know the truth Good job , with supertopo really enjoy it . johnboy Trad climber Ca n't get here from there Jun 17 , 2012 - 04:21pm PT Chris , we recently go to a geothermal heat pump and be now think about solar panel . There be no property tax increase for inside improvement here . My main concern around here go with solar panel be the increase in property tax . Our house be now value for tax purpose at 70,000 here in South Dakota , and be tax be at 1,600 a year . Our property tax increase will be close to a 600 dollar increase a year with the increase value , and that be about as much a we pay in electric now a year . Seems like it will take an awfully long time ( more than we get ) for the system to pay for itself when I take into account property tax increase . How much have your property tax increase yearly since adding this ? Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jun 17 , 2012 - 07:05pm PT California be exclude from property tax increase from instal solar panel . Here be the info here http : //www.dsireusa.org/incentives/incentive.cfm ? Incentive_Code=CA25F For South Dakota , it look like your system do not increase property tax a long a it meet some criterion list here http : //www.dsireusa.org/incentives/incentive.cfm ? Incentive_Code=SD51F To figure out what the deal be in your state , just do a web search for `` [ state name here ] property tax increase if solar '' Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Aug 9 , 2012 - 05:20pm PT Great article in the New York Times Today http : //www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/magazine/the-secret-to-solar-power.html ? pagewanted=1 & _r=2 & hp Also , my Friend Tom A ( many of you know him a a prolific Bay Area climber ) say he have a pretty sweet lead on how to do a DIY installation for about the 1/4 cost I pay . So if you be DIY mind ( or have great friend who be ) solar panel system can be instal for pretty mind-boggling low cost ericforbes Boulder climber San Rafael , CA Oct 14 , 2012 - 09:57pm PT Hello Chris , Great article ! I 'm excite to explore a similar TPO roof and solar panel installation for my low-profile roof ( Eichler ) in Lucas Valley . Can you recommend the roofer you use ? I 've do a search for roofer in the area that handle TPO but ca n't find any that do it specifically . I 've currently get a worn built-up roof ( tar and gravel ) that would love to be upgrade . Thanks again ! -Eric Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Oct 15 , 2012 - 11:13am PT Hi Eric , We use Steve ( Stephen ) Curley Roofing from Santa Rosa . Other San Rafael TPO roofer I would get a bid from be Wedge Roofing and Northern Pacific . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Nov 14 , 2012 - 01:05pm PT Here be another great solar panel report from a climber http : //shirleyandchris.net/blog/2012/11/13/solar/ Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Dec 21 , 2012 - 10:23am PT Another cool eco/techy gadget we just add be the Nest Learning Thermostat . you can control the temperature of your house from your iPhone ( see if you forget to turn off the heat when you leave the house ) it have a motion sensor that will automatically turn off the system if there be no movement ( I be pretty sure it factor in when you be sleep ) it also supposedly just learn what your habit be and what you want the temp set at when . At $ 250 , it expensive and will not necessarily pay for itself in under five year ( my standard for good eco investment ) . It 's just hard to spend much money on heating where we live ... the thermostat be only on 4 month a year . But the fun factor make it worth it to me . Where it will REALLY will pay off be at my Lake Tahoe Vacation Rentals . Renters will leave all the time without turn off the heat in the dead of winter . I 've come in and the house have be empty with the heat set at $ 82 degree for day . Needless to say , the gas bill can give me indigestion . So I anticipate that the Nest 's I have instal in Tahoe will pay for themselves in under a year . Controlling my thermostat from my iPhone . Credit : Chris McNamara Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Mar 27 , 2013 - 07:47pm PT Just come across this very cool video on DIY solar stunewberry Trad climber Spokane , WA Mar 27 , 2013 - 11:33pm PT We pay all of $ 0.08 per KWh in Spokane , no sliding scale for time of day . Would be a long time to pay off a solar upgrade , and there be no pay back for feeding the grid . We 've put in all LEDs for all light that be on more than an hour a day ; anything that be on regularly be at least a CFL . Once we complete the conversion , our bill drop by ~20 KWh per month . It will still take a long time to pay off the upfront expense . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Mar 30 , 2013 - 11:19pm PT Here be another great resource I just find on home energy tip , DIY EV 's , Geothermal and more - JohnSavesEnergy.com VictoriaG climber Redlands , CA Apr 22 , 2013 - 10:55am PT Thank you SOOOOO much for share the result of your many year of research into solar a a viable option . This be something we 've want to do forever and we 're now in a position where we can . As we 've start to look into the option , there be so much unclear or conflict information . Also , ( I 'm sad to say , ) most claim come from a solar company itself be suspect because we simply do n't know what 's true and what be n't . It 's so great to find info like yours ! We 're in SoCal with SCE and feel practically hold hostage by our electricity rate . Ca n't WAIT to get solar ! I do n't know if you still reply to email since it seem like this article must have make you mega-popular by now , but I know that my husband will probably have a couple of question about the specific of what we should end up get after he go through everything you 've put up here . The possibility that we might have access to someone a knowledgeable a you be amaze ! crock climber Apr 22 , 2013 - 11:41am PT Last summer I instal a system that use Enphase microinverters . It be a pretty easy process and have prove reliable so far . I put up a number of photo and diagram of the installation process and of the system , and from this page you can also link to power production data . http : //palmercanyon.netne.net Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Apr 25 , 2013 - 02:13pm PT VictoriaG , hit me up with any question you have . Crock , that be a sweet set up ! In other news , Just reserve one of these new electric car ... finally get to drive off the sun hit my solar panel ! http : //www.wired.com/autopia/2013/04/2013-fiat-500e/ Credit : Chris McNamara Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jul 18 , 2013 - 07:03pm PT Just get the Fiat 500e electric car ... charge off the solar panel right now ! Credit : Chris McNamara Emon Trad climber Jul 18 , 2013 - 07:46pm PT Nice ! Our solar panel , instal Feb 2012 have send energy back to the grid for 15 of the 17 month we 've have them , so we just get a prius plug-in . For local need , we 'll be drive on solar power , too . tooth Trad climber B.C . Jul 18 , 2013 - 10:09pm PT Looks great ! A friend of mine ( electrical engineer at Tazer ) will be test his 100w heat power generator on my wood stove this winter . It light up in Oct and stay on for 6 month , and he have patent a way to keep the thing go through too much heat ( the others burn out pretty quickly ) I 'm jealous that you can sell back to the grid like that though ... . we buy at 13 cent and can only sell at 3cents . So I 'll be sell a lot back in the winter , just have to attach panel and figure out how to keep 3 ' of snow from cover them up in the winter ... High Fructose Corn Spirit Gym climber Jul 19 , 2013 - 06:59pm PT You 're a role model , way to go , Chris ! Class act ! Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jul 22 , 2013 - 10:06am PT I keep tell friend that most electric car be basically free now . And the Wall Street Journal have my back http : //online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323982704578453123010639156.html Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jul 26 , 2013 - 03:46pm PT Just switch to a sweet time-of-use meter program for electric car through PG and E. I buy electricity at $ 0.03 at night and sell back electricity to the grid via the panel at up to $ 0.31 during the day . FRUMY Trad climber Bishop , CA Jul 26 , 2013 - 05:16pm PT TFPU Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Aug 7 , 2013 - 03:24pm PT More detail on the PGE rate : it call E-9 , Rate A . In the summer , it be $ 0.03855 per kWh to charge between midnight and 7am . Winter it be $ 0.048 . That mean it theoretically cost $ 0.93 to charge the 24kWh battery from 0 to 100 % I can then drive about 90-110 mile . So less than a dollar to go 100 mile . I like ! My wife 's 2012 Prius , about the most fuel efficient car out there , cost $ 8 to go 100 mile . Jon Beck Trad climber Oceanside Aug 7 , 2013 - 02:04pm PT you be lucky to have a public utility , we get rake in San Diego because we have a corporate utility . They buy power from u at half of what they charge regular customer . 7 cent per kWhor so I think . They justify it by the fact that 7 cent go to transmission and distribution and 7 cent go to the actual generation of the power . Crack-N-Up Big Wall climber NW Atlanta , GA Aug 14 , 2013 - 12:43am PT Very relevant article for the time we face . Very good information and number make economic sense for Chris 's location . Solar be get close to widespread use , but still have some way to go to compete with coal or natural gas in efficiency . Geothermal supposedly give the big bang for the buck when use commercially , and would be a worthy investment for a colder , cloudier environment . Without government help , solar would be a challenge to be profitable . As with time , efficiency will increase , before solar be mainstream . Nuclear be not environmentally safe and do n't make sense because the risk be never worth the saving . Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Dec 19 , 2013 - 01:57pm PT Since we be consume more juice with the electric car , just up the system by 50 % . Now up to 5 KW ( 21 panel ) and again produce more than we use . Sun farming be addictive ! More solar panel on the home / office Credit : Chris McNamara WTF climber Dec 19 , 2013 - 02:16pm PT Just curious what your pay back time in full be on that system ? Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Dec 19 , 2013 - 03:02pm PT 5-7 year be short answer . Longer answer be read the original post , many factor come into play . Brian climber California Dec 19 , 2013 - 06:16pm PT Awesome Chris . We 're generate more than we use a well , but if ( when ? ) we make the jump to a plug-in we be go to have trouble siting more panel -- we 've get a tough site between tree and a neighbor 's house . Good on you for promote this stuff . WTF climber Dec 19 , 2013 - 06:20pm PT I will again but I know have be in the energy biz if your not get a full ROI in 7 year it not a good deal . You obviously get it right and thats a good thing . wilbeer Mountain climber Terence Wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , Dec 19 , 2013 - 06:34pm PT Does anyone EVER consider solar for reason outside of monetary value ? feralfae Boulder climber in the midst of a metaphysical mystery Dec 19 , 2013 - 06:42pm PT Solar energy in all be form be super ! My neighbor have a wind generator . My house be design and situate for passive solar gain , and some day in winter , the issue be how to vent the extra heat . I wish I could save it . I think power your car off the excess from domestic demand be brilliant ! Thank you for so much info . Regards , feralfae Brian climber California Dec 19 , 2013 - 06:48pm PT Does anyone EVER consider solar for reason outside of monetary value ? I do n't even look at the ROI . It will be a long time see a we use very little electricity -- no television , no entertainment system ( that 's what rock be for ) , no video game , just a computer . The first three solar company I speak to laugh at me for consider it . When we finally go solar ( with Sungevity ) the cost be so low with rebate and such that we opt in for ideological , not economic , reason -- to encourage the shift to clean energy . Brian Matt Trad climber it 's all turtle , all the way dooowwwwwnn ! ! ! ! ! Dec 20 , 2013 - 01:09am PT awesome wilbeer Mountain climber Terence Wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , Dec 20 , 2013 - 07:01am PT Brian , thanks for that , my point exactly . It perplex 's me a to why some look exclusively what ROI alternatives have when consider them . I have have people argue that same angle about alternative , time and again . Some of the same people have argue their 50k BMW be a good investment than a 5k use diesel VW . Brock Trad climber RENO , NV Dec 20 , 2013 - 10:39am PT Chris , Any knowledge on the effect of snow load on panel for Truckee/Tahoe ? How do you install panel an a metal roof with potential 3 ' snow load at time ? Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Dec 23 , 2013 - 04:59pm PT Brock , yes solar with snow load add complexity . There use to be a few option for solar in South lake Tahoe , but A few of those company ( who be generally base in Reno or Sacramento ) no long provide solar to South Lake Tahoe because of snow load warranty issue on the mounting . I be actually look at solar for my Tahoe Vacation Rentals next summer . I talk to one company in Placerville , Solar Hut that be go to give me a bid on a system that integrate into the roof ( instead of be mount on a racking system ) . This system add to the cost but also be supposedly well for snow load . I know in truckee you have more local option than South Lake . Here be some http : //www.solarwindworks.com http : //dcsolarelectric.com/solar-power-truckee/ Chris McNamara SuperTopo staff member Author 's Reply Jan 21 , 2014 - 01:44pm PT If you want to invest in solar installation without put them on your roof , here be two option : Mosaic and Spring 2014 with SolarCity . H Mountain climber there and back again Jan 21 , 2014 - 08:35pm PT Chris , right on . I wholeheartedly agree in the direction your going . I sell solar in Corte Madera in the late 70 's and early 80 's for a company name Solartherm . One of the installers be still in the business his name be Roger Cogland and his company be Sun Pirate . I highly recommend him . I would like to digress a little but not entirely . And maybe get to the heart of the matter . America be one of , if not the most wasteful country in the world . Privlege have it curse . I do n't own a house , so that leaf me out on some level . And I be not a minamalist either . I have way to much stuff . However . I produce about one of those plastic bag you get from the grocery store of `` waste '' every 2 or three week ! I compost , recycle and reuse ( repurpose ) almost everything . Additionally I use cold water to wash . I turn off the water when I brush my teeth . I be dry my cloth right now on the line . The only light on at my house be the one need in a particular room at the time it need and turn off when it not . My PGE bill average out to be about $ 30 a month . In order to do my part and not buy into `` the American way '' I buy almost everything use . Usually at yard sale ; from individual like you and me , not Wallmart etc . This cut down on the energy it take to reproduce , transport , store and market a product . I think this be the other part of the equation . My version of feed back into the grid . My hat be off to those folk who be self sustain and off the grid entirely . To me it about a lifestyle where we minimize the impact we be have on a society of glut , waste and consumerism . I do n't mean to preach . I believe we can all be steward in our own way . Keep up the good work Chris . Solar be an important message . I just want to add there be many way to keep our cost down and not buy into the machine . wilbeer Mountain climber Terence Wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , Jan 21 , 2014 - 09:25pm PT H , Your a good man . Did you like this article ? Got something to say ? Do n't hold back ... Comment on this article Routes Bouldering Forum Gear Reviews Photos Articles Trip Reports Entire Site Go Recent Articles 5 Ways to Support SuperTopo Dec 12 , 2014 ; 7:27pm How to Set Up a Self Belay for a Solo Toprope Nov 30 , 2014 ; 12:51pm How to Big Wall Climb - Building Big Wall Anchors Aug 05 , 2014 ; 6:09pm Privacy Policy Jul 23 , 2014 ; 8:17pm Chuck Pratt May 11 , 2014 ; 7:19pm How to Big Wall Climb : Following 1 : Low Angle Terrain Mar 13 , 2014 ; 12:15am 10 Tips To Make Big Wall Climbing More Fun Mar 07 , 2014 ; 4:13pm Bold School , Old School Feb 23 , 2014 ; 9:36am SuperTopo Goes Solar - How and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house Jan 21 , 2014 ; 9:25pm Clean Climbing and Fixed Gear - Tips for Keeping El Capitan Garbage Free Jan 05 , 2 supertopo go solar - how and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house - supertopo.com welcome guest ! join supertopo sign in home climb area alaska bay area bouldering desert tower , utah high sierra red rock , nevada south lake tahoe yosemite big wall yosemite valley tuolumne meadow zion national park climb route route search boulder search trad climbing route alaska desert tower , utah high sierra red rock , nevada south lake tahoe yosemite valley tuolumne meadow big wall route yosemite big wall zion national park , utah bouldering route bay area bouldering northern california bouldering yosemite valley bouldering lake tahoe bouldering tuolumne bouldering guidebook traditional climbing alaska climbing desert tower select high sierra climbing red rock climbing south lake tahoe climbing yosemite valley free climb tuolumne free climb big wall climbing yosemite big wall the road to the nose zion climbing : free and clean bouldering bay area bouldering lake tahoe bouldering northern california bouldering yosemite valley bouldering tuolumne bouldering dvd learning to fly dvd the sharp end dvd free topos photo featured photo pro photo gallery climber slideshows upload a photo my photo search photo gear gear review belay device climb harness climb helmet rock protection big wall gear bouldering gear snow and ice carabiner rock climbing shoe gear sling and runner view all gear category best-in-class award forum climber 's discussion forum recent route beta posting recent trip report recent article recent gear review home > article > supertopo go solar - how and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house monday , march 2 , 2015 article supertopo go solar - how and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house by chris mcnamara thursday november 27 , 2014 10:18am supertopo 's west coast headquarters ( aka lita and chris mcnamara's house ) just instal home solar panel - yes ! solar panel at chris mac 's house credit : chris mcnamara i have dream of owning solar panel since i be 10 ( i be a weird kid ) . i 've be research the best solar panel system since 2008 . i be a little worry that all the hype and buildup would not equal the reality . but i have to say the panel be well than i imagine . chris mac 's solar power system credit : chris mcnamara enphase microinverter credit : chris mcnamara why do we go solar ? three reason : 1 - i have always think solar be cool . a 10-year immersion in eastern psychology text leave me not want many possession except i have always want to own home solar panel but never have a house to put them on . so in the interim , i put my focus on portable solar panel . i just like the idea of generate my own power . especially if it can then be use power something like my electric bike . 2 - it 's a really good investment ( see below ) . in today 's stock and bond environment , it 's actually hard to think of a safer investment with a more guarantee rate of return over a 10 to 30-year period . if you want to invest in solar installation without put them on your roof , here be two option : mosaic and spring 2014 with solarcity . 3 - i 'm a big believer in moving to more renewable energy and away from drilling/mining/burning . i 've read way too many book on the subject , many of which be rant polemic . but two great book be oil on the brain which tour the globe report on how oil extraction happens and who it affect and the quest which i think give a pretty good history lesson on where our energy come from and where it be head . both book take you on a global adventure where you meet entertain character along the way . sharp solar panel on our house . credit : chris mcnamara question people often ask me about solar for the home how long doe it take to pay back ? it depend on at least five variable that be all dynamic ( except for the system cost ) how much power you use your electric rate system cost how much electricity rate go up in the next 25-plus year . how you define `` payback '' it will probably take me seven year to pay for the system in electricity generation . after that it be free electricity or i be sell back extra power . however , there be always the argument that it actually pay for itself on day 1 because the system cost , discount by 30 to 50 percent in state ( california ) and federal incentive , likely add that much value to your house . here be a study ( pdf ) from lawrence berkeley national laboratory that found solar boost the value of your house by $ 5.50 a watt in resale value . since i pay far less than $ 5.50 per watt i guess the payback period take about no time ! there be a lot of tool to calculate cost and payback time of solar . this be my favorite solar calculator and here be a very detail article on solar payback time ( pdf ) i buy my system because i want `` the joy of own home solar panel '' and the long term investment benefit . however , today you can get solar panel on your roof for nothing because many company like solar city , realgoods and sungevity offer various form of solar lease . this option be ideal for folk who do n't want to spend the up-front money . one great we have hear good thing about be sunrun . what be the rate of return on the investment ? it all depends on where electricity rate go . in the below graph i use a four percent annual rate of utility inflation , which seem conservative because for the last 37 year in california utility price have go up on average six percent annually . credit : chris mcnamara it also depend on how long the system last . component be guarantee for 25 year and most system old than that still produce 80 percent of their original power . in the below number i conservatively only use the first 25 year . if you plug in a six percent rate of utility inflation and assume the system will last 40-plus year , the rate of return be much high . while it 's hard to pin down exactly how good an investment solar be , it be clear that it be a good one if you live in an area with good sun and use a decent amount of electricity . example estimate rate of return on a home solar panel system credit : chris mcnamara be the environmental cost of make the panel worth the power generate ? yes . big yes . the energy require to make a panel be produce by the panel in one to four year accord to this article ( pdf ) or less than 1.5 to two year accord to this article are solar panel the best way to save money and protect the environment ? no , efficiency will always be the best return on investment and best for the planet . the cheap and clean kilowatt of electricity be the one you never buy or use . for example , i have be obsess efficient car for year ( half hoping my '97 subaru dy so i can justify get one ) . but then i realize i should really be focus on electric bike ( which be insanely efficient in their use of electricity ) or just a regular bike . the most efficient car in the world be the one you never drive . here be an awesome site for diy energy conservation project . another great resource be johnsavesenergy.com how do you choose which installer ? i get bid from five company : solarcraft , real good solar , solar city , sun first ! , and cooperative community energy . i end up go with solarcraft just because they seem to have the best customer service and they happen to have the best price . they also have access to great financing . the whole process went a seamlessly a any construction project i have be a part of . i highly recommend them . a few friend have also use real good and highly recommend them . what panel and inverter do you use ? our 3.3 kw system be compose of 14 sharp 235 watt panel with enphase microinverters . i go with the least expensive panel which happen to be sharp . i use the enphase microinverters because i have some shade issue . if you have partial shade , you need either a microinverter or product like solarcity have which make sure a few shade panel do n't bring down the whole system 's production level . but even without the shade , i might have go with the enphase because they generate five to 15 percent more power than central inverter in the real-world monitoring case i have hear about . more importantly , the enphase let you see how every panel be produce at every moment on your computer or iphone , which be very cool ( see below ) . the enphase software show me how much power i be generate . data be update every 5-15 minute . credit : chris mcnamara are you on the grid or off the grid ? do your meter spin backwards ? our system be grid-tied . when it 's sunny , we sell power back to the grid , usually a high rate , and our meter spin backwards ( it 's a digital meter so sadly there be no dial to spin only a small blinking arrow ) . when it dark , we buy power back at a low rate . for example , in the summer , during peak hour , i can be off climb while our system sell power to the grid at $ 0.21 a kilowatt hour . when i get home at night the rate to buy it might only be $ 0.04 a kilowatt hour . so at the end of the year i will probably get a decent size check from our utility company . i be lucky because in marin county we have marin clean energy that pay a good price ( retail price plus a penny ) to buy your extra power . in most part of california , pge will only pay you for your excess power at the wholesale rate ( which be 30 to 50 percent less than the retail rate ) . off-the-grid system be really only for if you either live where you do n't have access to the grid , it be prohibitively expensive to get access to the grid , or if you philosophically just want to be off the grid . being off the grid do n't make sense for most people for three reason : ( 1 ) off-the-grid system be much more expensive because you have to buy a bunch of battery , ( 2 ) you do n't get the big federal tax credit and ( 3 ) you do n't get to take advantage of sell power to the grid at peak rate and buy it back at off- peak rate . can i get solar if i be a renter or in a condo-hoa situation ? that be a tough one . but it do seem to be get easy each year . here be an article on a new law california pass in 2011 that make it easy . be my roof right for solar ? first thing you need to know be how much sun your roof get . this online tool will give you a general idea . but the only precise way to measure be with a semi-fancy tool like a suneye while standing on your roof . most solar company do this a part of their free estimate . you then get a number ; my roof get 90 percent sun exposure on average throughout the year and be in a good area for sun ( not a good a the mojave desert but way well than most of the world ) . once you get the reading , you then have to decide how much sun in enough . germany get less sun than seattle but they have be the big installer of solar in the last ten year . it all come down to you decide how much power production justifies the cost of the system . can solar panel be recycle ? yes . but so far , their have not be much solar panel recycle just because even panel that be instal in the 70 's be still produce power . here be a good article on solar panel recycle . any extra cost ? if your roof be in bad or mediocre shape you may need to upgrade it to install solar . our roof be just bad enough that we decide to re-roof . we use a tpo cool roof which will keep our house cooler in the summer because the material reflect 95 percent of the sunny energy . the material be wild it be basically like our entire roof be now a slip n ' slide or river raft or haul bag . another cost may be an upgrade to your electrical system . if you have a super old house ( like we do ) you may need some upgrade to your panel . we have to pay about $ 200 , which seem very reasonable . ask me question ! i would be psyched to answer any question folk have about this . please post below or message me . and please check out my best portable solar panel review . i love the process of go solar and will be happy to help others do the same . next next project be to figure out how i can get solar panel on my lake tahoe vacation rental . i be go to be look into a solar lease because that be the only way i can figure out to get the tax credit . if anyone know about get credit for what the irs considers `` lodge '' please send me a note . i also just make a solar power electric bike . update after 6 month just come on the 6 month anniversary of own solar panel : 1 ) you can see just how much power we be generate at this link . it be update every 15 minute 24/7 . if you see a panel , not perform , send me an email and i will jump up on the roof and clear my neighbor kite . our solar panel system . credit : chris mcnamara 2 ) we be get $ $ . we buy more solar panel than we need to cover our bill . so every month we be get a check ( actually it be just a credit and you get one big check at the end of the year ) . this month credit be for over $ 100 . yeee haw ! 3 ) our meter spin backwards big time ! when we get our panel , pge give u a new meter that start at 000000 . it immediately start spin backward ( ok , it digital so there be no spinning but it count backwards ) . a you can see below , we have now sell back over 1100 kwh of excess power to the grid . this reminds me of that scene in ferris bueller 's day off where they put the ferrari on a stand to try and get the mile to go back . but in our case , it actually work ! meter `` progress '' after a 4 month . credit : chris mcnamara 4 ) the panel generate a surprising amount of power when it be cloudy or rain . it be only 40-60 % of the power generate when totally sunny . but still impressive . and a good reminder to wear sunscreen even when cloudy . update on 7/20/13 just get an all electric fiat 500e so that i can drive off the power from my solar panel ! just get the fiat 500e electric car ... charge off the solar panel right now ! credit : chris mcnamara the car , when combine with a special charging rate and load of incentive be basically free . here be an article from the wall street journal http : //online.wsj.com/article/sb10001424127887323982704578453123010639156.html december 2013 update since we be consume more juice with the electric car , just up the system by 50 % . now up to 5 kw ( 21 panel ) and again produce more than we use . sun farming be addictive ! more solar panel on the home / office credit : chris mcnamara article view : 24,735 chris mcnamara about the author climb magazine once compute that three percent of chris mcnamaras life on earth have be spend on the face of el capitan an accomplishment that left friend and family ponder chriss sanity . he have climb el capitan more than 70 time and hold nine big wall speed climb record . in 1998 chris do the first girdle traverse of el capitan , an epic 75-pitch route that beg the question , why ? outside magazine call chris one of the world fine aid climber . he be the winner of the 1999 bates award from the american alpine club and founder of the american safe climbing association , a nonprofit group that have replace over 5000 dangerous anchor bolt . he be a graduate of uc berkeley and serve on the board of the asca and the rowell legacy committee . he have a rarely update adventure journal , maintain basejumpingmovies.com , and also run a lake tahoe home rental business . comment did you like this article ? got something to say ? do n't hold back ... comment on this article do xx trad climber los angeles , ca feb 2 , 2012 - 04:06pm pt this be really cool , chris ! congrats on realize a dream , and be kinder to the planet all at the same time ! mungeclimber trad climber nothing creative to say feb 2 , 2012 - 04:20pm pt for collective housing , like townhouses/condos , be there any study show the efficiency/cost benefit of supplement power with solar there in that scenario ? hoa 's do n't seem willing to shift to solar , e.g . even just to power pool filter , fountain pump , etc. , without some sense that it 's go to reduce cost . good info on the inverter , i do n't know that . we would be partially shade . thx ! crimpergirl sport climber boulder , colorado ! feb 2 , 2012 - 04:22pm pt neat . thanks for all the info ! stevew trad climber the state of confusion feb 2 , 2012 - 04:26pm pt nice job , chris . i 've have my system for 5 year now , and it 's one of the best thing i 've ever do . i have literally no electric bill . the power i generate for my house be all free from el sol ! matty trad climber under the sea feb 2 , 2012 - 05:30pm pt thanks chris , lot of good useful info that will make people question what they 're currently do . i like learn about new stuff . qitnl climber feb 2 , 2012 - 05:41pm pt awesome ! ekat climber feb 2 , 2012 - 05:44pm pt ( i be a weird kid ) weird is worth it ! : - ) xo ek @ p.s . tfpu ! ghost climber a long way from where i start feb 2 , 2012 - 05:45pm pt hmmm . if i install solar panel on my roof , will that make the sun shine on my house in seattle ? batrock trad climber burbank feb 2 , 2012 - 06:00pm pt maybe i miss it but be you feed back into the grid or be you off the grid ? caughtinside social climber oakland , ca feb 2 , 2012 - 06:12pm pt would you be willing to share the cost of that system ? like out of pocket day one , before you get the credit . ken m mountain climber los angeles , ca feb 2 , 2012 - 07:19pm pt outstanding and inspirational ! bobinc trad climber portland , or feb 2 , 2012 - 07:37pm pt chris- do you also have solar hot water ? dingus mcgee social climber where safety trump leaving no trace feb 2 , 2012 - 07:38pm pt chris , when i be put solar panel on my van i be look for mci socket at the wholesale electrician supply . the salesman tell me you would not see solar around in few year after the gov rebate end . i be glad to see you get in under the wire . bluering trad climber santa clara , ca feb 2 , 2012 - 07:50pm pt a much a i really dislike the over-hyped green movement , have solar panel on your house be very practical in the long run , a you point out , chris . business could also benefit . when there be n't enough power from the sun , you simply divert back to 'the grid ' . it 's a no-brainer , really . especially in the long run . i be look to buy a house soon and will investigate the idea for my particular need . back in the early 80 's my dad have solar panel that be strictly devote to heating our backyard pool in san ramon . mike bolte trad climber planet earth feb 2 , 2012 - 08:05pm pt we put a 3.2kw system on our house four year ago . pre-microinverters so all 14 panel fee to a single inverter . make it a little hard to upgrade a we match the max panel output to the max inverter rating . love having the system on the house . edit : caughtinside , the guy who we contract to install our system handle all the rebate himself so out of pocket be discount by that amount . at the time that took a $ 27k total down to $ 22k and we get another $ 4k back in tax saving . sullly gym climber feb 3 , 2012 - 06:54am pt cool chris . plus they be low profile - not tacky from the street . sound like someone 's getting domesticate . my guess be the mcpitter-patter of tiny foot be n't too far off . paul souza trad climber central valley , ca feb 2 , 2012 - 09:33pm pt nice tr chris ! thanks for the info ! i have n't do any research into solar panel , but what about disposal of use panel ? can they be recycle ? charlie d . trad climber western slope , tahoe sierra feb 2 , 2012 - 09:37pm pt good job , nice clean installation over what look like a single ply cool roof which help with energy use reduction along with those solar tube for interior day-lighting . a good example for all of u who drive or fly manically to the mountain range of the world . an appropriate off-set from the fossil fuel we consume be climber and skier . thanks for post chris , we should all follow your example or move and stay put ! sorry for the wine induce rant , i must remind myself hipocracy be simply part of the human condition . berg heil and the earth too ! cheer ! charlie d . damo62 social climber brisbane feb 2 , 2012 - 09:43pm pt congrats chris , a wise investment . i be curious about your upgrade to your electrical system . what do you upgrade to and be that mandate by the utility company ( pg & e ) ? roxy trad climber ca central coast feb 2 , 2012 - 10:05pm pt now there 's an article i 'll fwd to my landlord . the house get a new roof late last year ... you never know . thanks for such a detailed report ! high fructose corn spirit gym climber feb 2 , 2012 - 10:14pm pt proud ! sierra ledge rat mountain climber old and broken down in appalachia feb 3 , 2012 - 12:40am pt until you can convince soccer mom that it 's cool the have solar panel on their house , the idea be dead . most of these bimbo just want their white picket fence and perfect grass and 2.5 kid . also many homeowner 's restriction prohibit the installation of solar panel . the satellite industry have the same problem but they have congress on their side and correct that problem . the coal and gas industry be not on the side of local-use solar energy , and so they will be everything to keep congress from change the status quo . good luck , enjoy . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 3 , 2012 - 02:19am pt great stuff . love all the comment and question . i just add a video and answer many of the question you guy ask . please fire more . i do n't have solar hot water just because i could n't find a cost-effective way to do it without instal it myself ... and i do n't want to punch hole in my perfect new haul-bag-roof ! but down the road i 'll try and figure out how to make it happen . dingus , the major tax credit , the 30 % federal tax credit be here till 2016 . the big credit that just expire be the tax grant for business and a some kind of accelerated depreciation . but for homeowner , the credit be here for a few more year at least . but even once the credit expire , solar will survive , and maybe even thrive . panel cost have come down 50-80 % in just the last year . if you assume price decline will continue at the same rate they have for the last ten year , then in only a few year , solar will be price competitive without rebate . then , the main issue will be that there be plenty of cheap solar generation and not enough ways to store the energy a a base load power source . storage be the big hurdle for wind and solar to get massive adoption at utility scale in the future . here be a pretty cool article by vinod khosla on the future of alternative energy ( pdf ) matt trad climber it 's all turtle , all the way dooowwwwwnn ! ! ! ! ! feb 3 , 2012 - 03:01am pt thanks chris ! great post . i will be email you sometime soon for some specific , but this be a great community service on your part- so mad prop to you ! also , i suggest chat with tom addison about hot water , seriously . gimmeslack trad climber va feb 3 , 2012 - 06:01am pt superb summary and analysis . tfpu ! ! cowpoke climber feb 3 , 2012 - 07:52am pt very cool . we be look into the panel lease program in ma . here 's how the program work : a homeowner call one of the company to ass the potential for solar at the home and install panel . a one-time , upfront fee of about $ 1,000 be charge , and the homeowner also be give an 18-year locked-in rate for energy the panel generate . that rate will be comparable to , or less than , what utility charge , accord to the company involve . if the homeowner use more energy than the panel produce , they then pay the utility it rate for the electricity . http : //www.boston.com/lifestyle/green/articles/2009/05/24/sun_for_rent/ chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 3 , 2012 - 10:56am pt yo matt , yeah hit me up . i will gladly give more info to folk who be seriously consider go solar . maybe ill make an exhaustive video or check list that show the whole process from start to finish . and yes , i talk to tom about solar hot water . he shop hard , get a great price on the component , and then instal it himself . i be not that handy and all the bid i have receive be pretty expensive . philo trad climber be that the light at the end of the tunnel or a tr feb 3 , 2012 - 11:09am pt thanks cmac for help to show the way and lead by example . jacobmichals social climber petaluma feb 3 , 2012 - 12:19pm pt @ chris thank you for invest in the planet . i hope the solar array not only meet , but exceed your expectation : ) . jacob enphase energy the user formerly know a stzzo climber kent feb 3 , 2012 - 12:27pm pt two thumb up ! i really like the faq . pfranzen boulder climber portland , or feb 3 , 2012 - 12:31pm pt thanks for the writeup chris ! for some reason there be a real lack of in-depth case study for home solar installation . it would be great if you could keep this update with monthly number on power use , power generate , etc . i be probably go to be buy a home in arizona this year , and solar be at the top of my list for improvement . lostinshanghai social climber someplace feb 3 , 2012 - 12:52pm pt chris , nice to see someone with future in mind . couple of thing solar be different than just turn it off if a with local utility company . if for some reason grid go down because neighbor pole or street/block be down or storm shuts their system down there be thing you need to do for safety and make sure your system be up and run in case you be on a climb or gone for a couple of day and just find out what happen to my solar and no light ? seems like you might have it cover since you have do homework on the subject . installer might have leave literature and do not cover all the base . also on circuit module the safety write be on the side which no one can see . 2012 code revision will be write to put inside panel to read . fireman go nut see the panel on top if they have to open or cut a hole in the roof . so make sure to have a copy where youre wire inside or interior partition be if they need access to your house . normal condition without solar when you cut the electricity you have no live energy . solar you still do have an energize state and will create an arc flash hazard which can kill or fry him . same with disconnect your connector to the panel will give off an arc if you turn system off . noticed on your photo no warning . sure you have arc-fault circuit protection [ direct current built in , problem need to be manually restart . like i say you could be go for a week come back and lose all your juice . any chance to provide more photo : did you take photo during installment [ beginning to end ] solar module combo box or what you be use [ separate to tie in with give power back to the utility co. , ground system [ on roof or to the ground ] , switch or circuit breaker , safety or warn sign . use battery for storage ? label , label and safety . nfpa [ national fire protection association ] be release their 2012 national electrical code for photovoltaics . so go to their web site . added quite a few from their 2011 . lessions learn . necplus.org be another and will be available there a well . other thing be nice having apps to phone . also you mention shade in winter what about summer ? they have an apps a well that tell you where and how much you might loose . wbraun climber feb 3 , 2012 - 12:55pm pt there ' too much information miss here chris . how be you feed your panel ? with battery or straight through the inverter with no battery ? what battery do you have ? manufacturer , size , make , configuration etc ? how be your system integrate into your house infrastructure ? it would be nice to see the schematic of the whole setup . gonzo chemist climber the east coast , for now . feb 3 , 2012 - 01:42pm pt awesome ! ! if i ever have a home in socal , az , or nm , i 'd love to do something like this . small fun-fact : supertopo member 'darshalu ' be a test engineer at enphase ( the company that make cmac 's microinverters ) . darshahlu trad climber irvine , ca feb 3 , 2012 - 02:40pm pt heck ya chris ! good on you . p : i work for enphase . i 'm hurtin . . . ice climber midwest feb 3 , 2012 - 02:46pm pt nice article and good info . thinking/planning on building in the black hill within a few year , this be good stuff to keep in mind ! hightraverse trad climber bay area feb 3 , 2012 - 06:58pm pt hmmm . if i install solar panel on my roof , will that make the sun shine on my house in seattle ? that 's why chris include the link to the solar insolation ( how much sun hit your house ) computer . with 16 panel , i could generate 2.8kw at full sun and i 've get a garage roof with excellent sun exposure about 3/4 of summer daylight hour . my problem be my electric bill be already down to $ 85 per month so here in the santa cruz mtns the cost/payback computation come up with about 12 year to break even . i 'll run the computation again at different number of panel . however i 'll soon be compute the cost/payback for a plugin hybrid car . which will be much well . maybe by 2013 it will make sense . chris : thanks for your excellent and informative report . your link reference be a great starting point . micronut trad climber fresno/clovis , ca feb 3 , 2012 - 07:08pm pt super cool man . thanks for the effort you put into this . great insight and a big help . i get ta go shut off some light . jstan climber feb 3 , 2012 - 09:53pm pt great thread ! lost : i understand solar system be configure to shut down whenever power from the grid be off . this so that linemen wo n't get fry . what you report seems to contradict this ? collaterally i do n't see why this be even need . you could put a relay power by the grid so that when grid be down the system be entirely disconnect but be still operate for the customer . when the linemen bring up the grid they presumably will already be hand off . must be stuff go on here with which i be not familiar . mike bolte trad climber planet earth feb 3 , 2012 - 10:43pm pt chris can answer for himself , but i 'll bet he have no battery and that he ca n't use his system when the grid go down . by far the most common system have panel generate current when the sun be shin that be convert to 120hz ac with an inverter , and this feed to the grid via a meter that run two way : if you be generate more power than you be use at any moment , the meter run backward and vice versa . so , you do n't directly use any of the power your system generates and if the grid go down , you do too . edit : ah , i see chris add a bunch of ( excellent ) info . he be indeed grid-tied . guido trad climber santa cruz/new zealand/south pacific feb 4 , 2012 - 03:01pm pt excellent posting chris-we have be use solar panel on our boat since the early 80 and have watch the evolution of thin , safe-to-walk-on panel and some of the problem inherent with them . key thing with any solar panel be to go with a reputable and establish company that have a long term warranty and you hope will be around if you have any problem . manufacturer be the key ! reputation be the key ! ginormous amount of poor panel on the market . we can basically run the boat completely from our 8 panel and that includes a 12 volt freezer and a separate 12 volt refrigerator . boat system can suck up a lot of power , so we have three bank of two each 6 volt deep-cycle trojan golf cart batteries , with a capacity of 675 am hour at 12 volt . rarely ever have to run our vw diesel engine to top up the charge . we use deep cycle lead acid battery because they be the most reliable . not susceptible to overcharge damage , and easy to replace a single battery if you be in timbuktu and some cell go bye bye . yes . it be a hassle to top up with water on a regular basis but it allow you to be more in tune with your charging system overall . the follow will illustrate my emphasis on choosing a reliable manufacturer . in 2004 we place 4 large panel on the cabin top from a well know german company call solara . efficient , high voltage panel that could take a slight deck camber for mounting , safe to walk on and productive even with partial shading . within two year i notice a slight intrusion of water into the membrane . year three , all the panel have significant water intrusion and thing be not look good . to make a long story short : i have to tear all the panel off and toss them . of course we be situate in a remote part of the south pacific and it would be month before we get to new zealand . thus begin a two year battle with the company to get replacement . finally , they send new panel to replace the `` defective '' one . after refairing the cabin top from the damage from the `` defective '' panel we next have to paint the entire area before we could install the new panel . well , two year later the game start over when i again notice a slight water intrusion into one of the new panel . endless letter , e-mail and threat over the past two year have result in zero cooperation , even though the company , solara , state it be there faulty quality control that be responsible . solarasucks ! we also have 4 solarex thin , solar panel on the radar arch and they have be fantastic with no problem . six 6 volt deep cycle trojan golf cart lead acid set up for three bank of 12 volt-675 amphr credit : guido charge electronics etc ... ... ... ... ... . credit : guido fuse system for both bank and regulator . credit : guido 4 large solara panel on the cabin top . yes you can walk on them . credit : guido oops , a wee bit of condensation in the panel . not too worry mate ! credit : guido time to worry mate . credit : guido get ugly . credit : guido nice mess on the cabin top . credit : guido 4 fantastic solarex msx thin panel on the radar arch . credit : guido credit : guido second batch of solara panels-we have a problem here . credit : guido time for a domain name guido- credit : guido credit : guido fish finder social climber feb 4 , 2012 - 09:44am pt nice enthusiasm and interest chris . thanks for the info and i look forward to the ten year follow-up . cliffhanger trad climber california feb 4 , 2012 - 01:37pm pt excellent . thanks . save money and save the planet , great way to go . wbraun climber feb 4 , 2012 - 01:49pm pt thanks guido for your post above . this be the kind of information and stuff that 's need for this technology . not the continuous useless mantra we 're save the planet and no real practical information . conrad climber feb 4 , 2012 - 05:05pm pt nice . one step at a time . base104 social climber an oil field feb 12 , 2012 - 10:12am pt i build a little off the grid setup that i use for the summer and fall . it be just light and electronics , so it do n't need to be that big . i buy two really big 6 watt battery and a single 400 watt panel . it be n't that much . for the electronics you have to have a pure sine wave inverter . i score one that could handle far more current than my system . i buy it at inverter r u , on the web . i manage to buy everything but the battery on the web for about 60 % of what the local retail solar guy be charge . there be a glut of panel right now , and they be cheap . it really be excite to learn how much current you need for each device . light be nothing if you go lead or compact flourescent , which you should be do anyway . hey . it be n't the oil company who hate solar . almost all electricty that come from fossil fuel be coal . the natural gas company have be try like crazy to use it a a generating fuel for decade . even though there be a total glut of natural gas right now , and price be incredibly low , we have coal fire plant in oklahoma and texas . that really piss off the oil company . coal be the filthy of all fossil fuel . natural gas be the clean in not only emission like mercury , but also in carbon per btu . the reason that most of our computer be get our juice from coal right now be that it be a very efficient generating fuel . so if you go solar , you be use less coal . since natural gas be all home grown , it do n't follow the same price a oil , which be extremely high right now . local fleet like ups and others go to natural gas vehicle a long time ago . the problem be that there be no infrastructure . if just truck move to natural gas , our oil import would be far less , and we could use natural gas a a transition fuel to clean technology . there be only so much natural gas . if we go to natural gas for transportation , we would n't need all of those nimitz class aircraft carrier in the middle east . trust me . the u.s. oil company do n't have nearly a much political clout a the kingdom of saudi arabia . if they want to punish alternative , which they will some day , they will open the spigot and low oil price . make alternative much more expensive . solar be really cool , though , and a good investment that will pay out in less than ten year . just do n't think that burn wood for heat be cool . wood be bad than coal . switch to propane if you have no option other than electricity . propane come from natural gas anyway . you have to be in the energy industry to truly appreciate how foolish we be about energy . you can drill baby drill all you want and not make a dent in oil . gas be different . the only book worth reading on the topic of oil be the prize . oil=power , and by power , i mean military and economic power . our addiction to oil be bad for many reason . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 4 , 2012 - 08:59pm pt no battery for my system . it all go straight to the grid . werner , i will look for the diagram of the install . here be all the info on the sharp panel ( pdf ) i use i have not read the prize - i will add it to the list . but i do read daniel yergin 's late book , the quest which i think be pretty illuminate on history of energy . i read a lot of other book and if people be interested i could give a summary of which one i like and which one be rant with an agenda . high fructose corn spirit gym climber feb 4 , 2012 - 08:53pm pt pretty illuminate on history of energy . i read a lot of other book and if people be interested i could give a summary of which one i like and which one be rant with an agenda . absolutely . lostinshanghai social climber someplace feb 4 , 2012 - 08:48pm pt jstan : a couple of web site that describe the issue , i be a member of both icc [ international code council ] and nfpa and sit in committee meeting and write paper . would have to get a hold of them for me to release code requirement due to copyright which they would say no problem a long a i be not get pay for consulting but would be not a problem if you want the # can produce but just to give you an idea : also just to complicate the problem choose the right inspector be critical and i mean critical so do not take their word that it pass . grounding be the big issue , also access need to be out side and not interior . again i will say inspector [ not all ] be the same and do not know what they be do a in construction so need to be careful in choosing system . you can do yourself suggest take a class : recommend nfpa course . http : //www.nfpa.org/assets/files/pdf/research/fftacticssolarpower.pdf http : //www.solaredge.com/files/pdfs/se_safety_application_note.pdf osfm.fire.ca.gov have a fire safety for solar . pdf ? it be somewhere on their site but if you need it can provide . icc and nfpa regulate . which republican hate . sorry if some dy because you fu # hed up you should be accountable . hey ! that be what keep lawyer employ . here be just a start : internachi inspector may want to check for the follow design element that will prevent pv module from exacerbate the danger of a house fire : photovoltaic system should be instal and subsequently inspect regularly by a qualified professional . pv system should be label in a clear and systematic manner to ensure that technician and firefighter can quickly and easily identify key element of the system . the main service disconnect panel should be clearly label on the outside cover , if it be operable from the outside without open . both interior and exterior portion of live conduit should be label every 10 foot . battery should also be clearly label . a rooftop shutoff valve should be present . this switch could be utilize to disable the direct current running from the solar panel through the conduit . the roof should have sufficient pathway and perimeter space around the pv modules so that inspector and firefighter can traverse the roof safely . there should be a section of the roof leave vacant so that it may be ventilate , if necessary . check for damage from rodent and other pest , which could compromise wire or insulation . there should be an integrated arc-fault detection device present in the solar panel , which shuts down individual panel in the case of a malfunction , such a arcing . during the permitting process when the pv system be instal , the local fire department should be give a set of the plan to refer to in case of emergency . in summary , photovoltaic solar panel rarely cause house fire directly , but the potential hazard they pose in the event of a house fire can be mitigate with proper installation and preparation . from solar panel fire and electrical hazard - internachi http : //www.nachi.org/solar-panel-fire-electrical-hazards.htm # ixzz1lslstpun so google the problem there be a lot of the problem you say i be incorrect or wrong . save me a lot of time . do the home work . be in the office this week and provide soom apps to u on apple phone that be great , so use contractor you can say `` how much '' and you can say `` fu % k you '' . i charge $ 300.00 an hour so just give you a freebee . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 4 , 2012 - 09:24pm pt here be all the book i have read on energy really good oil on the brain the quest the homeowner 's handbook to energy efficiency not a gas station good bottled lightning climate capitalism energy efficiency upgrade the end of oil energy alternative : oppose viewpoint bottled lightning revolution in a bottle not sure i would recommend the party 's over cross the rubicon power hungry and a few other good eco book biodiesel biodiesel america lolli mountain climber ... silence , like a cancer grow feb 4 , 2012 - 09:24pm pt interest . wbraun climber feb 4 , 2012 - 09:35pm pt chris i post a reply hit send , and then it disappear . what kind of web site be this place : - ) anyways i want to say thanks and hope to see your setup here . i 'm really interested ... . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 4 , 2012 - 09:58pm pt hey werner , here be the file on the techy detail of the system . these be the plan for when we have 13 panel . we end up with 14 panel so the number be now different . equipment detail more detail but the photo be blurry ... i will make a pdf in a second damo62 social climber brisbane feb 4 , 2012 - 10:24pm pt chris , why do you have to upgrade your exist electrical service ? thanks . the fet climber tu-tok-a-nu-la feb 4 , 2012 - 11:49pm pt great post . thanks for share . debating a system too . mighty hiker climber outside the asylum feb 5 , 2012 - 01:32am pt thanks , everyone - interesting discussion . sort of related , there be a big article in our paper today about b.c . 's potential for wind generate power , and how it 's nearly down to hydro price here . we use deep cycle lead acid battery because they be the most reliable . not susceptible to overcharge damage , and easy to replace a single battery if you be in timbuktu and some cell go bye bye . guido , if your boat have battery trouble in timbuktu , look on the bright side - it ca n't sink any time soon . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 5 , 2012 - 12:22pm pt the electrical upgrade be because my house be build in 1930 and there be some ungrounded wire near the panel and other general old sketchyness . at least i think that be what be go on . it do n't take much time or money to fix . probably need to be do anyway . wbraun climber feb 5 , 2012 - 12:26pm pt thanks again chris . everything be clear now . i have n't be follow the recent development in the solar field . the micro-inverters idea be new to me and now it make sense how the system be tie into the infrastructure . the micro-inverters automatically shut down if the outside grid shuts down to prevent the service linemen from get fry . unless there be a disconnect from the main your solar system will be shut down too . drawback to a system without storage battery be you 're not completely independent . but ! ! ! it 's still a good system in an urban set . the grid synchronize solar power system be awesome and should be implement viral . it should go all out in the usa and there 's no reason not to ... mattq331 mountain climber boulder/uk feb 5 , 2012 - 01:05pm pt hi chris , many thanks for all this great information . i 'm about to rip the roof off our house in boulder , and am consider both solar and the white roofing material . do you have any number on the saving from go white ? i hear it be a wash - saving in summer be balance out by loss of warming during winter ? cheer . matt chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 5 , 2012 - 01:23pm pt i do n't have the exact number on the roofing . for u it be an easy decision because we do n't have ac and the summer can get hot in san anselmo . also , it be the same price to do tar and gravel vs. going over the exist roof with the white tpo material . if you be completely remove the roof , then i could see how maybe the tpo be more expensive . here be the wiki cool roof article and here be the straight dope on painting your roof white . from what i have read , cool roof really make sense in any climate where you use a lot of ac . if you live in a colder climate , then there be less benefit and less passive heat gain to your home in the winter . norcalnomad trad climber san francisco feb 5 , 2012 - 10:20pm pt come from marin myself i remember when pg & e would n't buy back any of your power , the reason why my parent do n't put solar panel on when we get roof work done ( and the low efficiency at that time ) . glad to see that there be an even well alternative than selling it to pg & e jim clipper climber from : forest to tree farm feb 5 , 2012 - 11:19pm pt tres impress ! ! ! i 'd like to do more , and the info . be useful . also , i 'm not sure , but i think these guy , locate in boulder , build a house in the rockies at about 7k ft . it be largely , if not entirely off the grid . finally , i think they grow banana . http : //www.rmi.org/ http : //www.rmi.org/amory % 27s+private+residence chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 6 , 2012 - 12:55am pt i forget to add rmi new book reinvent fire to my recommend book list . i especially like the rmi collaboration on the empire state building efficiency upgrade . a 13 million dollar investment in efficiency upgrade will save the building $ 4.4 million a year . now that be a pretty amaze return on investment ( and the building now need 38 % less energy ) . lostinshanghai social climber someplace feb 6 , 2012 - 05:38pm pt couple of other book photovoltaics system second edition atp sunwise solar electric product catalog free can download catalog solmetric site evaluation and system design . if you do not have i phone but best or cheap be use apps for smart phone just aim towards sun and will give info on angle or tilt for the panel , best location , what happens with shade , temperature and more plus cheap . spray-on solar panel develop at u and a [ canada ] be promise and windows be in the work a well from different company . thickness of a hair . www.cbc.ca/ ... /edmonton/story/2011/08/12/edm-spray-on-solar-cells.html also www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/science_nation/sprayonsolar.jsp here in the state a for micro-converters issue colour cod need to change and will be update since the blue ring attache to the other blue coloured for connection . problem if you do not know what you be do you end up connect positive to positive . so change be in the work to correct it . credit : lostinshanghai left connector sightly can see the blue ring in middle credit : lostinshanghai right connector when open have blue ring a well [ blurry photo ] credit : lostinshanghai credit : lostinshanghai notice wording on side of fuse or circuit assembly warn need to post on inner panel a well . `` do not open under load '' with these configerations how could you read it so will be change . credit : lostinshanghai credit : lostinshanghai ken m mountain climber los angeles , ca feb 7 , 2012 - 02:04am pt oddly enough , i attend a panel discussion tonite entitle : be california solar gold rush destined to fail ? i 'll post the link to the video of it tomorrow . here 's the info on it : moderated by warren olney , host of 89.9 kcrw 's which way , l.a. ? and to the point california history be a tale of crazed grab : for gold , for oil , for fame , for make weapon and plane . today , the state be in the midst of a solar energy frenzy . solar panel materialize on rooftop , on coastal mountain , and in massive array in the state desert . the state and federal government be offer incentive to push the rush . will the rapid move to solar power produce new job , new industry , and clean and cheap energy ? or do the pace and nature of the rush pose threat to the economy , ecosystem , and government budget ? lisa margonelli , director of the energy policy initiative at the new america foundation , daniel m. kammen , director of the renewable and appropriate energy laboratory , ron nichols , general manager of the los angeles department of water and power , and jim cahill , solarcitys regional operating director , visit zcalo to discuss whether solar power in california be a passing fad or a lasting innovation . margonelli write an interesting article , on point : http : //zocalopublicsquare.org/thepublicsquare/2012/02/01/solar-not-just-for-tinfoil-hatters-anymore/read/nexus/ solar : not just for tinfoil-hatters anymore but most of our debate about it miss the point by lisa margonelli since 2007 , california have experience a solar boom . photovoltaic panel rest on 107,159 rooftop , a of this writing ( the number be update here every wednesday ) . driven by incentive that be bankroll by every californian who pay a utility bill , californian now have more than one gigawatt of solar capacity instal over our head thats a lot : one gigawatt be roughly the size of one of the state four nuclear power plant , although solar pv panel do not produce power at the steady , even rate that nuke do . california recently approve 11 separate solar power plant , big installation of mirror and equipment that can concentrate the sun heat to produce power . if build , those 11 plant will have a capacity of 4.2 gigawatts . the cumulative impact of all of this buildingdriven by federal investment tax credit and state mandate to generate a third of the state power from renewable source by 2033is astonish . in short order , solar could lose it tinfoil-hat-california-dream aura to become the golden state new normal . this be a stunning triumph of all the thing we californians hold dear : idealistic bureaucrat , an action-hero governor , starry-eyed inventor , entrepreneurial environmentalist , venture capitalist , and thousand of big and small business and homeowner who want to be part of the future . but will it last ? california have be on the solar cutting edge before . in the 1980s , the state produce 95 percent of the world solar power . one company , luz international , design solar thermal power plant and manage to reduce the price of generate a solar kilowatt hour of power by two-thirds between 1984 and 1989 . but by 1991 , luz be bankrupt . the problem wasnt the technology : luzs plant be still gleam away in kramer junction and harper lake for the utility nextera energy resource . what do luz in be fall energy price , unpredictable political support for the tax incentive that keep investor in the game , and the lack of a big-picture push to make solar a fundamental pillar of energy security . unfortunately , the thing that killed luz be still around . forecast of fall natural gas price would make solar energy less competitive . solyndra have ensure dwindle political support . and we still dont have a national greenhouse gas policy or a carbon tax that would ensconce solar a a core of our electric portfolio . be there a cautionary tale here ? or be luz just an artifact of the past ? the first person i call be michael lotker , luzs former vp of business development . he write a report on the demise of luz publish by sandia national laboratory in 1991 . for a report , it a rip yarn of how high energy pricescombined with an activist california public utility commission and government initiativeshelped make room for solar entrepreneur in california energy market . investor be attract by federal energy tax credit while state property tax exemption help reduce cost . luzs power plant look vaguely like space station or martian landing pad . big circle of mirror concentrate solar heat , while extensive pipe system carry hot fluid to the generator . although the engineer manage to reduce the cost of solar power , energy price fell even fast : fossil-fuel price drop by 78 percent between 1981 and 1991 . meanwhile , the political support for solar power evaporate . congress start drag it foot on the yearly renewal of the energy tax credit , and 1990s renewal last only nine month . this made financing perilous . then , in 1991 , california governor veto the property tax exemption . although it be ultimately reinstate , the credit be label controversial . i reach lotker , whos leave solar power to become a rabbi , while he be help with a funeral . he remember the day of try to secure political support . it be two emergency every year , he tell me . the first be get the new plant online . the other be get the credit . it be always life or death and it make our cost much high . lotker describe many barrier to the company success . there be false confidence in the availability of renewable energyand a lack of commitment to take the step to make solar competitive with other form of power , include putting a price on pollution or the hidden cost of conventional power generation . i always think support for these [ step ] be a mile wide and an inch deep , he say . everyone love them but no one would fight to the death . thirty year ago , lotker and his compatriot at luz look at bombing range in nevada and imagine power the whole u.s. with concentrated solar thermal power from them , but inch deep support cut their small effort off at the knee . today rabbi lotker drive by the old plant occasionally and say he feel like a father to them , but without a carbon price solar power will lack enough support to become a major part of the grid . in the usual discussion of solar power in the medium , we focus on whether the technology work or whether it too expensive to compete . sometimes we talk about poor management , boondoggle , or the proper role of government in helping renewable energy . rarely do we talk about how politics invade a business model , make a risky proposition more risky . if we learn anything from the past , it should be that the dumb thing we could possibly do be to support a technology , get company go , and then yank the support so that taxpayer investment go to waste . some of luzs founder start a company call brightsource , which design , develops , and sell solar power plant that use bank of precisely angle mirror to concentrate heat on a central tower to generate steam and electricity . brightsource have contract for 2.4 gigawatts of generation with california utility and plan to design and build several plant . brightsources senior vice president of government relation and communication , joe desmond , be formerly chairman of the california energy commission and have hold position in the public and private sector . he be a springy intellectual with an encyclopedic enthusiasm for solar . to desmond and those on the inside of the energy business , it obvious that the entire utility sector be the product of government regulation , incentive , and goal . but that can also be risky for a technology . regulator sometimes get enamor of a technology with hidden barriershydrogen for examplethat then fall out of favor . and no one will forget the starkness with which the tricky relationship between politics and the grid be lay bare during the california blackout of 2000-2001 , which cost governor gray davis his job . there be high consequence for the failure to manage risk , desmond say . desmond mention two way that risk be already embed in the solar energy landscape . first , as in the 80 , federal tax credit be an important part of get investor to pony up money for solar project . the investment tax credit have be extend to 2016 , a solid timeframe that allow entrepreneur a predictable future . but a provision call section 1603which allows those tax credit to be monetize earlymust be renew every year , and it be not renew at the end of 2011 . with shade of luz , the shuttering of 1603 be likely to cut private financing for solar significantly . solyndras bankruptcy be drive the debate around renew program like 1603 , even though the loan the federal government make to the start-up be very different from the tax credit make to solar producer . it difficult to communicate the difference in a sound bite , say desmond . but , in many way , the problem with tax credit be old-school . the new , more interesting , more futuristic risk be the one pose by the restructuring of the grid itself . the old grid be hierarchical , with centralized power plant dispatch power at will . the new grid be a two-way flow of information and energy . were move from centralized to distribute decision make , say desmond . how do we manage these risk ? regulator often play catch-up to the technology . a partially solar-powered grid will have benefit and risk we dont yet understand , and these will be combine with the risk of wind , cheap and plentiful natural gas , and a smart grid that make consumer and their usage part of the conversation . a the grid get more complicated , so do the regulation . brightsource and other power company have be work on way to store energy so it can be dispatch on the grid when it need . brightsource store heat , and then use it to generate electricity after the sun have set . hydroelectric plant often pump water back behind a dam so they can send power onto the grid when it need . but a energy storage evolves , regulator need to decide philosophically what it be . be it like electricity , which be a product ? or be it more like natural gas , a fuel that can be store ? recently the california public utility commission have have seven proceeding on energy storage . the consequence of the commission obscure decision on this issue may suddenly become visceral some screaming hot afternoon in 2015 . and no one want to be the next gray davis . i leave the conversation with desmond think that while the energy cognoscenti have learn the lesson of luz , the rest of u have not . were enjoy the same pointless debate about the government proper role in energy market that we have in 1991 . in the meantime , the grid and the power market have evolve from the punch-card world of 1981 to the day-trading internet of today we need to up our game . in some way , reality have overtake the moribund conversation . a day or two after i interview desmond , a tree fell across a power line near my house and leave me without power for almost 24 hour . i hadnt lose power in five year , and the last time it happen i be miserable . i have just a few battery flashlight , the battery in my laptop only last two hour , and the phone be dead . not this time . now my laptop battery last seven hour , my cell be fully receptive , and i have a cheap solar-powered led light from ikea . with my gas stove and the ikea lamp i make dinner , call the utility to report the wire , and do an evening work on the computer . i even watch a movie on it . between the battery , the 3g network , and the solar light , my evening be not too different from a night on the gridjust darker . it make me wonder if maybe we be miss the whole point about solar . i call john perlin , a solar historian and author of from space to earth : the story of solar electricity . perlin be now involve in the installation of solar photovoltaics at uc santa barbara . he believe weve get too wrap up in try to make solar power compete with fossil fuel , distract u from it real advantage , which be that it right on the roof , independent of the grid . you dont need wire , or power plant , transformer , or dispatcher . do away with high-voltage line be not a luddite view , say perlin , it a futuristic one . the revolution will come as we cut down the utility line and up with the rooftop . weve put decade of effort into make solar conform to the grideven down to convert solar panel from dc power to ac power and then turn that ac power back to dc power for our tv , computer , and electronics . house by house , weve create redundant costly equipment . perhaps what we need instead be a more contrarian viewpoint . all our appliance be dc , trap in an ac world , say perlin . the history of technology be full of these discontinuity story . if be go to take advantage of the discontinuity of our time , then we ( the public , policy maker , and the medium ) need to start talking about what power mean now . lisa margonelli be a fellow at the new america foundation , the publisher of http : //energytrap.org , and author of oil on the brain : petroleum long , strange trip to your tank . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 8 , 2012 - 12:47am pt great essay . i have no idea lisa write about solar when i read , like and recommend her book oil on the brain in the original article ( top of this page ) ken m mountain climber los angeles , ca feb 8 , 2012 - 04:09am pt here be the video of the event i be at . very interesting . http : //zocalopublicsquare.org/full_video.php ? event_id=512 ed hartouni trad climber livermore , ca feb 10 , 2012 - 10:51pm pt california pass assembly bill 32 `` global warming solution act '' in 2006 ab32 set a goal to achieve a reduction in the state 's green house gas ( ghg ) production to 20 % of the 1990 level by 2050 . an article in the january 6 , 2012 issue of science magazine contain the article `` the technology path to deep greenhouse gas emission cut by 2050 : the pivotal role of electricity '' by williams , et al . . the abstract : `` several state and country have adopt target for deep reduction in greenhouse gas emission by 2050 , but there have be little physically realistic modeling of the energy and economic transformation require . we analyze the infrastructure and technology path require to meet california goal of an 80 % reduction below 1990 level , use detailed modeling of infrastructure stock , resource constraint , and electricity system operability . we find that technically feasible level of energy efficiency and decarbonize energy supply alone be not sufficient ; widespread electrification of transportation and other sector be require . decarbonized electricity would become the dominant form of energy supply , pose challenge and opportunity for economic growth and climate policy . this transformation demand technology that be not yet commercialize , a well a coordination of investment , technology development , and infrastructure deployment . '' they model a number of scenario to come up with one that achieve the reduction . the scenario they come up with essentially preserve the `` life style '' of the state and end up with rather minimal cost , on balance . the basic scenario be stag , with gain in energy efficiency come first , a decarbonization of electricity and then the electrification of transportation . basically they see the need to replace our `` local '' fossil fuel use with electricity use . then the production of electricity by technology that do n't put ghgs into the atmosphere . the large use of fossil fuel for transportation be the last technology transition , which about three quarter of the `` light duty vehicle '' transition from gasoline to electric vehicle and plug in hybrid . the goal for roof top photo-voltaics be small , but be 10 % of the electricity demand . the electricity generation would then transform from nearly 100 % fossil + hydro to a mix of carbon capture and storage generation , renewables and nuclear . the model allow a pricing of the scenario with the net cost the difference between the paying for the move and the saving because of the move ... the 2020 point the net cost be $ 15b ( $ 320 per person ) , 2035 $ 45b ( $ 910 ) and by 2050 $ 65b ( $ 1200 ) . california be the 6th large economy in the world and the 12th large ghg emitter . the gross state product ( gsp ) be about $ 1900b , today with a per caput income of $ 43,000 . we can afford it ... the concluding pargraph : `` assume plausible technological advance , we find that it be possible for california to achieve deep ghg reduction by 2050 with little change in life-style ( although the potential for life-style change deserves far study ) . the logical sequence of deployment for the main component of this transformation be ee [ energy efficiency ] first , follow by decarbonization of generation , follow by electrification . this transformation will require electrification of most direct us of oil and gas . in california , no single generation technology ( renewable energy , nuclear , or cc [ carbon capture and storage ] ) can be use to decarbonize all electricity ; a mix generation portfolio be require . if it be true that the low-carbon path feature electricity , then the question be how best to mobilize investment and coordinate r & d and infrastructure rollout to achieve this end , and what climate policy modality will be most effective . if the oil economy be replace by the electric economy , it be instructive to consider the implication of the price of a decarbonized kilowatt hour replace the price of a barrel of oil a a benchmark for the overall economy . '' chris be on the lead edge of california 's laudable goal of responsible energy use . emon trad climber feb 11 , 2012 - 05:16pm pt thanks for the awesomely informative and inspire post , cmac ! great point about `` the clean kilowatt be the one you never use '' . i 'll just share a few highlight on our project of living in a net-zero home : in 2009 we buy a fixer-upper ( that 's put it charitably . the inspector deem it `` uninhabitable '' , but with some cajole remove that designation so we could get a mortgage ) . initially , we just want to make it liveable , but then my husband get psyched to up the anti to strive for a net zero house . basic rule of thumb : put all the investment in efficiency ( insulation , windows , appliance ) until investment in efficiency become more expensive than an investment in energy generation . we bring our heating bill down about 75 % ( ! ) by installing mega-insulation and new window . our solar panel be go up right now . we should be online sell energy to the grid in 1-2 week . the best solar potential on our lot be n't on the roof , so we end up building a structure to capture it . we debate many scenario before decide to go with pv now . after this , we 'll be look to replace our natural gas furnace with a different heating system ( ductless mini-split heat pump ) and that should get u to a net-zero house that doest not rely on fossil fuel . just want to say : there be so many way to go with this stuff ! it be amaze the possibility and the know-how that be already out there ! people be doin ' it ! jon beck trad climber oceanside feb 13 , 2012 - 12:56pm pt great article , i go solar 3 year ago and love it . thanks for be part of the solution lostinshanghai social climber someplace feb 13 , 2012 - 03:22pm pt further education or consider future application this july conference and expo in san francisco on just about anything to know about solar even dont throw away grass clipping in the yard and bottle you will be able soon to make your own with paint on cell . http : //www.intersolar.us also another source for info : www.renewableenergyworld.com wbraun climber feb 13 , 2012 - 03:29pm pt this thread and along with practical energy efficient design for home and vehicle should replace that stupid `` why be republican wrong about everything '' dumb sh ! t thread . slabbo trad climber colo south feb 13 , 2012 - 07:34pm pt i have be almost 5 year and 3 mile from the grid . they quote $ 110,000 . be a solar tech and do your first system a your own really help . right now batteries be at 75 % and livin ; large . chris- i like those enphase for gt billf climber mill valley , ca feb 22 , 2012 - 02:30pm pt i write solar information website a a hobby , and i have to say - this article nail it . chris list a few aspect of the decision , but let me draw attention to his most important one : the price you 're pay for electricity . here in northern california , we have tiered rate , and after consume about $ 50 of electricity in a month , we 're in tier 3 , pay 30 cent a kilowatt-hour , and tier 4 , pay 34 cent . i just bid a install here in marin county ( yes - i 'm in solar sale ) and by agreeing to a prepaid lease , the homeowner will be get 20 year of electricity for 10 cent a kilowatt-hour . right now he 's pay 34 cent . look at that math . his panel could all break , utility rate could drop - every worst-case scenario could happen , and it 's still a no-brainer ! most of u have a tougher decision . but if you 're in pg & e country , solar probably make sense . and there be lot of good company out there . just always get a few bid . http : //www.pgeandsolar.com http : //www.ismyroofright.com http : //www.howmanypanels.com chris - please email me - bf @ u-write.com - i 'd like your opinion about the different solar lease you might have see . lostinshanghai social climber someplace feb 23 , 2012 - 12:10pm pt if anyone be the bay area next week : inverter and pv system technology forum february 27-28 , 2012 solarpraxis will host it inaugural inverter & pv system technology forum in san francisco on february 27 & 28 . this event will bring together those involve in the manufacture , plan and construction of a pv system , with a specific focus on the electrical system and their interface , and how these can be optimize . calseias executive director will be moderate a session on certification requirement and permit . more info : solarpraxis.de it be english look for conference $ 169.00 to get in . biggie be in july wbraun climber feb 23 , 2012 - 12:19pm pt i have a question/s . when you have the solar system with the micro inverter type setup tie into the infrastructure and no battery this mean you take power from the utility company at night ? when you have excess power from your home solar system not be use be that go to the utility company to subtract from your eventual overall usage bill from them ? look sketchy there ... social climber lassitude 33 feb 23 , 2012 - 02:31pm pt chris , thank for this very informative post . we be consider solar for our house and this give u a lot of resource . thetennisguy mountain climber yuba city , ca feb 23 , 2012 - 05:07pm pt chris , thanks ! ! this be a great write up ! it answer a lot of the question i have include about the new roof . best regard ... the alpine climber feb 23 , 2012 - 11:57pm pt guido - be those small solar panel on your dorade box ? for a fan ? chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 28 , 2012 - 12:49am pt we just get array of the week from enphase energy - here be the story wbraun climber feb 28 , 2012 - 01:04am pt so the bottom line with your system you need the pg & e grid at night or when you have not enough from your panel to meet your load requirement . if the pg & e grid go down your solar grid go down automatically with it to protect the outside linemen from get zap from your system . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply feb 28 , 2012 - 01:13am pt yes , at night we buy power from the grid ( generally at a low rate ) . during the day , when it be sunny , we be almost always sell power back ( generally at a high rate ) . and if there be a power outage , we no longer send power to the grid . wbraun climber feb 28 , 2012 - 01:24am pt thanks chris . i really like this system , and one can even have the option to modify it to provide power at night or if the grid go down . i know how to do that so this be great . generationfourth trad climber arizona jun 7 , 2012 - 11:48am pt chris ... nice solar article . curious have you review any of the big goal zero setup ? i 've be use the escape 150 setup and two panel for the past few month . i 've be on the road work remotely , live out of a car , and have successfully use the system to power my macbook for daily use a well a all of my electronics/lighting . maybe i can write an article ? chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jun 7 , 2012 - 11:59am pt i have be use the extreme 350 adventure kit . i be actually just about to post a review on it . i have not use the escape kit . just the goal zero sherpa 120 kit . i will create a page for the escape kit and it would be awesome if you could post your experience . thanks ! ill message you soon . generationfourth trad climber arizona jun 7 , 2012 - 12:06pm pt yeah that sound good , shoot me a email/message when it 's ready jon beck trad climber oceanside jun 7 , 2012 - 01:08pm pt great article , love the micro-inverter concept , glad to see it work well . i put in a 3kw system 4 year ago and be add a 2.4kw system i buy on craigslist for 4k dollar . the new system provide power to charge a gem neighborhood electric vehicle ( craigslist 4k dollar ) . i be put a much a 200 mile month on the ev , drive it for free . everyone that own a house in california should be do this . forest trad climber lafayette , co jun 7 , 2012 - 02:47pm pt awesome , chris . thanks to foresight on my father 's part and my following through once i own a home , i 've be lucky enough to live in solar power home for more than half of my life . happy to be in one again . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jun 11 , 2012 - 02:25pm pt on a related solar note , i i just write an article on make a solar power electric bike solar power electric bike credit : chris mcnamara corniss chopper climber break the speed of gravity jun 11 , 2012 - 03:55pm pt think the bike panel would benefit power wise by be move a foot or more aft because a little a 5 % area shade of a pv will render it useless . some extension bracket to get it out of the butt shade region and perhaps some tilt ability to adjust it for perpendicularity to the sun ray while rid and i think you 've get a winner ! blake trad climber berkeley , ca jun 12 , 2012 - 01:55pm pt chris , well do ( both installing the solar and write intelligently about it ) ! there be a whole lot of myth and misunderstanding about solar , so thank for do your part to provide solid , practical information . your only mistake be not choose sun light & power for the system design and installation . i 'm just kid , of course . solarcraft be a great company . in fact , we have partner with them in the past and work on each others ' project , and they be definitely a quality outfit . for anyone in the bay area / northern ca intrigue by the idea of go solar ( commercial or residential , pv or solar thermal ) , feel free to contact me with any question : blake gleason , pe director of engineering sun light & power blake ( at ) sunlightandpower ( dot ) com berkeley , ca davio trad climber san rafael , ca . jun 17 , 2012 - 01:17pm pt i live in marin a well . solar be the way . the digital pg & e meter you may want to change that out . it transmit a very high watt cell signal . no big deal really so long a your bed be not right there on the other side of the wall . because it be not a hand hold it dose not have to follow the same law . not trust large corp . i do a little research , no matter what they say it be not good to have a high watt signal travel through your head . pg & e transmits all the time . take a look at this video in sf . youtube rf radiation pulse on pg & e 'smart ' meter danger of smart meter know the truth good job , with supertopo really enjoy it . johnboy trad climber ca n't get here from there jun 17 , 2012 - 04:21pm pt chris , we recently go to a geothermal heat pump and be now think about solar panel . there be no property tax increase for inside improvement here . my main concern around here go with solar panel be the increase in property tax . our house be now value for tax purpose at 70,000 here in south dakota , and be tax be at 1,600 a year . our property tax increase will be close to a 600 dollar increase a year with the increase value , and that be about as much a we pay in electric now a year . seems like it will take an awfully long time ( more than we get ) for the system to pay for itself when i take into account property tax increase . how much have your property tax increase yearly since adding this ? chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jun 17 , 2012 - 07:05pm pt california be exclude from property tax increase from instal solar panel . here be the info here http : //www.dsireusa.org/incentives/incentive.cfm ? incentive_code=ca25f for south dakota , it look like your system do not increase property tax a long a it meet some criterion list here http : //www.dsireusa.org/incentives/incentive.cfm ? incentive_code=sd51f to figure out what the deal be in your state , just do a web search for `` [ state name here ] property tax increase if solar '' chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply aug 9 , 2012 - 05:20pm pt great article in the new york time today http : //www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/magazine/the-secret-to-solar-power.html ? pagewanted=1 & _r=2 & hp also , my friend tom a ( many of you know him a a prolific bay area climber ) say he have a pretty sweet lead on how to do a diy installation for about the 1/4 cost i pay . so if you be diy mind ( or have great friend who be ) solar panel system can be instal for pretty mind-boggling low cost ericforbes boulder climber san rafael , ca oct 14 , 2012 - 09:57pm pt hello chris , great article ! i 'm excite to explore a similar tpo roof and solar panel installation for my low-profile roof ( eichler ) in lucas valley . can you recommend the roofer you use ? i 've do a search for roofer in the area that handle tpo but ca n't find any that do it specifically . i 've currently get a worn built-up roof ( tar and gravel ) that would love to be upgrade . thanks again ! -eric chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply oct 15 , 2012 - 11:13am pt hi eric , we use steve ( stephen ) curley roofing from santa rosa . other san rafael tpo roofer i would get a bid from be wedge roofing and northern pacific . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply nov 14 , 2012 - 01:05pm pt here be another great solar panel report from a climber http : //shirleyandchris.net/blog/2012/11/13/solar/ chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply dec 21 , 2012 - 10:23am pt another cool eco/techy gadget we just add be the nest learning thermostat . you can control the temperature of your house from your iphone ( see if you forget to turn off the heat when you leave the house ) it have a motion sensor that will automatically turn off the system if there be no movement ( i be pretty sure it factor in when you be sleep ) it also supposedly just learn what your habit be and what you want the temp set at when . at $ 250 , it expensive and will not necessarily pay for itself in under five year ( my standard for good eco investment ) . it 's just hard to spend much money on heating where we live ... the thermostat be only on 4 month a year . but the fun factor make it worth it to me . where it will really will pay off be at my lake tahoe vacation rental . renter will leave all the time without turn off the heat in the dead of winter . i 've come in and the house have be empty with the heat set at $ 82 degree for day . needle to say , the gas bill can give me indigestion . so i anticipate that the nest 's i have instal in tahoe will pay for themselves in under a year . control my thermostat from my iphone . credit : chris mcnamara chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply mar 27 , 2013 - 07:47pm pt just come across this very cool video on diy solar stunewberry trad climber spokane , wa mar 27 , 2013 - 11:33pm pt we pay all of $ 0.08 per kwh in spokane , no sliding scale for time of day . would be a long time to pay off a solar upgrade , and there be no pay back for feeding the grid . we 've put in all led for all light that be on more than an hour a day ; anything that be on regularly be at least a cfl . once we complete the conversion , our bill drop by ~20 kwh per month . it will still take a long time to pay off the upfront expense . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply mar 30 , 2013 - 11:19pm pt here be another great resource i just find on home energy tip , diy ev 's , geothermal and more - johnsavesenergy.com victoriag climber redlands , ca apr 22 , 2013 - 10:55am pt thank you sooooo much for share the result of your many year of research into solar a a viable option . this be something we 've want to do forever and we 're now in a position where we can . as we 've start to look into the option , there be so much unclear or conflict information . also , ( i 'm sad to say , ) most claim come from a solar company itself be suspect because we simply do n't know what 's true and what be n't . it 's so great to find info like yours ! we 're in socal with sce and feel practically hold hostage by our electricity rate . ca n't wait to get solar ! i do n't know if you still reply to email since it seem like this article must have make you mega-popular by now , but i know that my husband will probably have a couple of question about the specific of what we should end up get after he go through everything you 've put up here . the possibility that we might have access to someone a knowledgeable a you be amaze ! crock climber apr 22 , 2013 - 11:41am pt last summer i instal a system that use enphase microinverters . it be a pretty easy process and have prove reliable so far . i put up a number of photo and diagram of the installation process and of the system , and from this page you can also link to power production data . http : //palmercanyon.netne.net chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply apr 25 , 2013 - 02:13pm pt victoriag , hit me up with any question you have . crock , that be a sweet set up ! in other news , just reserve one of these new electric car ... finally get to drive off the sun hit my solar panel ! http : //www.wired.com/autopia/2013/04/2013-fiat-500e/ credit : chris mcnamara chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jul 18 , 2013 - 07:03pm pt just get the fiat 500e electric car ... charge off the solar panel right now ! credit : chris mcnamara emon trad climber jul 18 , 2013 - 07:46pm pt nice ! our solar panel , instal feb 2012 have send energy back to the grid for 15 of the 17 month we 've have them , so we just get a prius plug-in . for local need , we 'll be drive on solar power , too . tooth trad climber b.c . jul 18 , 2013 - 10:09pm pt look great ! a friend of mine ( electrical engineer at tazer ) will be test his 100w heat power generator on my wood stove this winter . it light up in oct and stay on for 6 month , and he have patent a way to keep the thing go through too much heat ( the others burn out pretty quickly ) i 'm jealous that you can sell back to the grid like that though ... . we buy at 13 cent and can only sell at 3cents . so i 'll be sell a lot back in the winter , just have to attach panel and figure out how to keep 3 ' of snow from cover them up in the winter ... high fructose corn spirit gym climber jul 19 , 2013 - 06:59pm pt you 're a role model , way to go , chris ! class act ! chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jul 22 , 2013 - 10:06am pt i keep tell friend that most electric car be basically free now . and the wall street journal have my back http : //online.wsj.com/article/sb10001424127887323982704578453123010639156.html chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jul 26 , 2013 - 03:46pm pt just switch to a sweet time-of-use meter program for electric car through pg and e. i buy electricity at $ 0.03 at night and sell back electricity to the grid via the panel at up to $ 0.31 during the day . frumy trad climber bishop , ca jul 26 , 2013 - 05:16pm pt tfpu chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply aug 7 , 2013 - 03:24pm pt more detail on the pge rate : it call e-9 , rate a . in the summer , it be $ 0.03855 per kwh to charge between midnight and 7am . winter it be $ 0.048 . that mean it theoretically cost $ 0.93 to charge the 24kwh battery from 0 to 100 % i can then drive about 90-110 mile . so less than a dollar to go 100 mile . i like ! my wife 's 2012 prius , about the most fuel efficient car out there , cost $ 8 to go 100 mile . jon beck trad climber oceanside aug 7 , 2013 - 02:04pm pt you be lucky to have a public utility , we get rake in san diego because we have a corporate utility . they buy power from u at half of what they charge regular customer . 7 cent per kwhor so i think . they justify it by the fact that 7 cent go to transmission and distribution and 7 cent go to the actual generation of the power . crack-n-up big wall climber nw atlanta , ga aug 14 , 2013 - 12:43am pt very relevant article for the time we face . very good information and number make economic sense for chris 's location . solar be get close to widespread use , but still have some way to go to compete with coal or natural gas in efficiency . geothermal supposedly give the big bang for the buck when use commercially , and would be a worthy investment for a colder , cloudier environment . without government help , solar would be a challenge to be profitable . a with time , efficiency will increase , before solar be mainstream . nuclear be not environmentally safe and do n't make sense because the risk be never worth the saving . chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply dec 19 , 2013 - 01:57pm pt since we be consume more juice with the electric car , just up the system by 50 % . now up to 5 kw ( 21 panel ) and again produce more than we use . sun farming be addictive ! more solar panel on the home / office credit : chris mcnamara wtf climber dec 19 , 2013 - 02:16pm pt just curious what your pay back time in full be on that system ? chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply dec 19 , 2013 - 03:02pm pt 5-7 year be short answer . longer answer be read the original post , many factor come into play . brian climber california dec 19 , 2013 - 06:16pm pt awesome chris . we 're generate more than we use a well , but if ( when ? ) we make the jump to a plug-in we be go to have trouble siting more panel -- we 've get a tough site between tree and a neighbor 's house . good on you for promote this stuff . wtf climber dec 19 , 2013 - 06:20pm pt i will again but i know have be in the energy biz if your not get a full roi in 7 year it not a good deal . you obviously get it right and thats a good thing . wilbeer mountain climber terence wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , dec 19 , 2013 - 06:34pm pt do anyone ever consider solar for reason outside of monetary value ? feralfae boulder climber in the midst of a metaphysical mystery dec 19 , 2013 - 06:42pm pt solar energy in all be form be super ! my neighbor have a wind generator . my house be design and situate for passive solar gain , and some day in winter , the issue be how to vent the extra heat . i wish i could save it . i think power your car off the excess from domestic demand be brilliant ! thank you for so much info . regard , feralfae brian climber california dec 19 , 2013 - 06:48pm pt do anyone ever consider solar for reason outside of monetary value ? i do n't even look at the roi . it will be a long time see a we use very little electricity -- no television , no entertainment system ( that 's what rock be for ) , no video game , just a computer . the first three solar company i speak to laugh at me for consider it . when we finally go solar ( with sungevity ) the cost be so low with rebate and such that we opt in for ideological , not economic , reason -- to encourage the shift to clean energy . brian matt trad climber it 's all turtle , all the way dooowwwwwnn ! ! ! ! ! dec 20 , 2013 - 01:09am pt awesome wilbeer mountain climber terence wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , dec 20 , 2013 - 07:01am pt brian , thanks for that , my point exactly . it perplex 's me a to why some look exclusively what roi alternatives have when consider them . i have have people argue that same angle about alternative , time and again . some of the same people have argue their 50k bmw be a good investment than a 5k use diesel vw . brock trad climber reno , nv dec 20 , 2013 - 10:39am pt chris , any knowledge on the effect of snow load on panel for truckee/tahoe ? how do you install panel an a metal roof with potential 3 ' snow load at time ? chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply dec 23 , 2013 - 04:59pm pt brock , yes solar with snow load add complexity . there use to be a few option for solar in south lake tahoe , but a few of those company ( who be generally base in reno or sacramento ) no long provide solar to south lake tahoe because of snow load warranty issue on the mounting . i be actually look at solar for my tahoe vacation rental next summer . i talk to one company in placerville , solar hut that be go to give me a bid on a system that integrate into the roof ( instead of be mount on a racking system ) . this system add to the cost but also be supposedly well for snow load . i know in truckee you have more local option than south lake . here be some http : //www.solarwindworks.com http : //dcsolarelectric.com/solar-power-truckee/ chris mcnamara supertopo staff member author 's reply jan 21 , 2014 - 01:44pm pt if you want to invest in solar installation without put them on your roof , here be two option : mosaic and spring 2014 with solarcity . h mountain climber there and back again jan 21 , 2014 - 08:35pm pt chris , right on . i wholeheartedly agree in the direction your going . i sell solar in corte madera in the late 70 's and early 80 's for a company name solartherm . one of the installers be still in the business his name be roger cogland and his company be sun pirate . i highly recommend him . i would like to digress a little but not entirely . and maybe get to the heart of the matter . america be one of , if not the most wasteful country in the world . privlege have it curse . i do n't own a house , so that leaf me out on some level . and i be not a minamalist either . i have way to much stuff . however . i produce about one of those plastic bag you get from the grocery store of `` waste '' every 2 or three week ! i compost , recycle and reuse ( repurpose ) almost everything . additionally i use cold water to wash . i turn off the water when i brush my teeth . i be dry my cloth right now on the line . the only light on at my house be the one need in a particular room at the time it need and turn off when it not . my pge bill average out to be about $ 30 a month . in order to do my part and not buy into `` the american way '' i buy almost everything use . usually at yard sale ; from individual like you and me , not wallmart etc . this cut down on the energy it take to reproduce , transport , store and market a product . i think this be the other part of the equation . my version of feed back into the grid . my hat be off to those folk who be self sustain and off the grid entirely . to me it about a lifestyle where we minimize the impact we be have on a society of glut , waste and consumerism . i do n't mean to preach . i believe we can all be steward in our own way . keep up the good work chris . solar be an important message . i just want to add there be many way to keep our cost down and not buy into the machine . wilbeer mountain climber terence wilson greeneck allegheny , ny , jan 21 , 2014 - 09:25pm pt h , your a good man . did you like this article ? got something to say ? do n't hold back ... comment on this article route bouldering forum gear review photo article trip report entire site go recent article 5 way to support supertopo dec 12 , 2014 ; 7:27pm how to set up a self belay for a solo toprope nov 30 , 2014 ; 12:51pm how to big wall climb - building big wall anchor aug 05 , 2014 ; 6:09pm privacy policy jul 23 , 2014 ; 8:17pm chuck pratt may 11 , 2014 ; 7:19pm how to big wall climb : follow 1 : low angle terrain mar 13 , 2014 ; 12:15am 10 tip to make big wall climbing more fun mar 07 , 2014 ; 4:13pm bold school , old school feb 23 , 2014 ; 9:36am supertopo go solar - how and why we choose solar photovoltaic panel for our house jan 21 , 2014 ; 9:25pm clean climbing and fixed gear - tip for keeping el capitan garbage free jan 05 , 2 