Sustainable Energy - without the hot air : How to boil water Sustainable Energy - without the hot air Sunday , October 19 , 2008 How to boil water A friend tell me he 'd be fight with his kitchen-cohabitants over the question of whether to simply use the gas to make hot water for pasta , or whether to use the kettle , then put it in the pot . To answer this question quantitatively , I do some experiment and I 've write a new webpage , How much be inside HOT WATER ? The page assume that the motivation be to save energy . The conclusion apply to Britain today and to similar country . My conclusion be that use the gas hob be slightly well in energy term than use the kettle ; but my recommend behaviour depends on the time of year . In the winter , if you would like to have more heat in your kitchen , then use the gas hob alone be definitely best ; in the heat of summer , use the kettle may be preferable . Disclaimers , small print ... If your motivation be to save money then the answer will depend on your fuel price . If your motivation be to cook the pasta a fast a possible then you should use neither method alone - you should use both the kettle and the hob , with roughly half in each . Posted by David MacKay FRS at 12:59 PM 16 comment : Iain say ... A relate common source of argument be the question of whether to fill the pan and/or kettle from the hot or cold tap . However , a an article in the New York Times explains , the hot tap should be avoid for health and safety reason . October 19 , 2008 at 1:44 PM Gavin say ... Nice research - but I have an electric ( ceramic ) hob , should I use that or the kettle ? October 20 , 2008 at 5:22 AM David MacKay say ... @ gavin - I do n't know ; I expect it 's very close ; can you do the experiment and let u know ? October 20 , 2008 at 10:38 AM Alex say ... Hi , former student here , I remember your lecture well , and am still a convince Bayesian . Anyway , how much water do you use ? Can you say what % of the energy consume actually be need to heat the water from the initial temperature to 100C ? Also , in Japan they have kettle that keep the water hot at around 80C ( or hot if desire ) and let you decant it a and when desire . This struck me a be ludicrously inefficient . Perhaps though with adequate insulation it might not be , compare to a method in which you boil a slightly excessive amount of water from cold for each pot of tea . Any thought ? October 23 , 2008 at 4:48 AM tapolak say ... David , I have have the same debate , but with respect to cofee & tea , not pasta . I just repeat your experiment , but I use a standard hob kettle on my gas stove . Measured 0.73 cuft = 0.22 kWh gas to take 1 litre of water from 12 degC to full boiling . Using your calcs , that be about 25 % less than the electric kettle us at the power station . I reckon that maybe a saucepan ( a you use ) waste about 30 % more energy by heat flow up the side . Note I use a fairly small gas ring - if I have use a large one it would no doubt have be a bit more wasteful . Anyway , on straight energy term , the gas kettle be significantly well . Plus I get the bonus of an extra 0.1 kWh approx of heat in my home . Rgds Sandy October 28 , 2008 at 2:07 AM Oliver say ... I 've wonder about this on and off for age : thanks very much Oliver Morton ( on hot tap : surely relatively few home have lead in pipe now ? ) October 29 , 2008 at 4:34 AM Ecorenovation say ... And what about the microwave ! ! October 31 , 2008 at 10:07 AM Jeremy Bickerstaffe say ... Your analysis do n't include the efficiency of the gas distribution network . How much gas energy be lose by sending it to your house ? November 4 , 2008 at 2:17 AM Chris Brown say ... Microwave ? I attemped a simple experiment , boil a single cup of water ( 350ml ) for my tea , use the same kind of energy meter that David use . My 3Kwh kettle consume 0.04 kWh of electricity to boil the water pour into it from the cup . The 900W Microwave consume 0.07 kWh of electricity to boil the water in the tea cup . November 10 , 2008 at 2:31 AM Compost John say ... I love this blog and would like there to be a 'followers ' button , like I have on mine http : //lowcarbonlifestyle.blogspot.com/ ( scroll down , in the right-hand column ) When you have this application , I 'll become a follower and will be notify when you post . Currently you be in my 'favourites ' list ! I boil water on my smokefree woodstove , which us virtually ( fossil ) carbon-free fuel ( brought to my house use cycle trailer ) , chop either by hand with bowsaw ( embody energy here ) or with my electric chainsaw ( embody energy here too , but leccy from 'Good Energy'.. 100 % renewables ) . I use the microwave to heat water in individual cup when the stove 's not lit , a the water heat be just that in the cup , whereas in a kettle , you heat usually more than one cup ... But , if I heat one cup to instant coffee temperature , it take 2 minute . Two cup take 3 minute and three cup take just 3 and a half minutes ... so this should be take into consideration when decide to use the electric kettle , gas hob or microwave to heat water . I look forward to reading more post on this important subject ! John Cossham , York , UK December 21 , 2008 at 2:08 PM Philip Machanick say ... Gavin , let 's see how far we can go with David 's number . The total transaction with the kettle+gas stove be 0.36kWh . We should adjust this for the electric hob but the difference will be small ( a fraction of 0.06 ) so let 's use this a a baseline . The total energy need to make the water boil on an electric hob be the same a the kettle , less energy leakage from less efficient energy transfer . The first number be 0.3kWh , so a long a the energy transfer be at least 83 % efficient ( with respect to kettle=100 % ) , the stovetop method will be competitive . That number be not only a property of the stove but also the container , a a container with good thermal conductivity on the base than the side and lid will give good result . I suspect you would get good result overall if you train everyone to like their pasta al dente , so they cook it on average for 10 % less time . December 23 , 2008 at 4:55 PM madeleine.rampling say ... I be have an 'on-going- argument ... ! ! I have be happily use the Gas hob with a Prestige Whisteling Kettle for the last 5 year a the worktop space have always beens tres limitee in my kitchen in France.I am tell I be mad..wasting MONEY and ENERGY 'cos it take a ) longer b ) cost more to boil it on a gas hob . I disagree ! but then I be a female and English ... and the stove top space be only use when cook al dente pasta and make stock ... petit poi spinache etc ! ! Help I 'm feed up with be make to feel a total Idiot when I 'm not so sure ! ! Mado December 6 , 2009 at 6:41 AM alfacento say ... I 've be wonder about this for a while : there a lot to think about when your making a cuppa ! So , Mado , and anyone else wonder ... Reveiwing whats be say above , the amount of energy people have measure in thier home that it take to boil a litre of water be : Gas hob ( small ring ) = 0.22kWh Electric kettle = 0.11kWh In the uk gas cost about 0.05/kWh , and Elctricity about 0.14/kWh , so ... thats go to cost you about : 1.1 penny ( gas ) , or 1.5 penny ( electric ) . ( nb . In France electrcity be about 4.3 Euro cents/kWh , so it will cost about 0.5 Euro cent to boil a litre in your electric kettle ... ) If it only cost you 're interested in then it a simple a that . ( Assuming you only boil the amount you need and switch the hob off a soon a the water boil ) Energy , though , be not create equally - Gas normally come straight from source , eg by drilling into the earth and take it , whilst electricity on the other hand can be generate in many way . By far the most common in the world be coal or gas fire power station . ( about 75 % of electricity generation in the uk ) France however , generate a 75 % of it electricity from Nuclear power station , whist some country such a Norway generate 95 % of thier electricity from Renewables ( Hydro-electric ) . So although your kettle be consume the same kWh of electricity , the effect it be have on the climate , pollution etc will be very different depending which country you 're in . A coal or gas power station be about 30-40 % efficient , mean that for every unit of electricity you use in your home , at least 3 time as much energy have be use ( in the form of coal or gas ) to generate it ! So then the amount of coal or gas that be burnt to boil your litre of water in the electric kettle become about 0.33kWh and the `` greener '' option would seem to be gas . Its a complex one . The economics be simple enough , but to really figure it out you need to know where the energy you use come from , how it produce , transport , how much be lose along the way etc etc . However it all out there on the internet if you have the time/incination ! Heres a couple of informative link : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable_energy http : //www.aepuk.com/need_info.php As a closing point , just to put the number we 're talk about into context , if you rig up your bike/rowing machine or similar with a modern , efficient electric generator , assume you 're a healthy fit human , you could produce electricity at a rate of about 100Watts . You would need to keep pedalling/rowing at this rate ( hard ! ) for over an hour to produce the same 1.5 penny worth of electricity you 're kettle us in 3 minute boil a litre of water ... Hope that help ! Mark , Edinburgh . December 16 , 2009 at 1:29 PM Justin say ... This comment have be remove by a blog administrator . March 7 , 2010 at 8:13 AM heavyweather say ... How about induction heater ... March 21 , 2011 at 3:33 AM Paul Mott say ... It 's a shame that the appliance manufacturer , who sell `` coolwall '' toaster , do n't sell double-insulated ( physically , not electrically ! ) kettle . Many folk , myself include , have plumb that mean hot water for the basin take a long time to flow from the hot tap , and entail the inefficient heating up of a long run of copper pip ( and it content ) - undesirable in summer . So we use a part-full kettle , and boil it rather often a an instant source of hot water for cleaning crockery etc . This would be a far more energy efficient act if kettle be sell with good thermal insulation ( e.g . two separate plastic skin ) . November 21 , 2011 at 9:17 AM Post a Comment Newer Post Older Post Home Subscribe to : Post Comments ( Atom ) Popular Posts Wind farm wake Petrol , diesel , mile per gallon , litre per 100 km , energy , and emission How to boil water Shale gas in perspective Wind farm power-per-unit-area data complete Crowd-sourcing the IET 's 2050 Pathway Do UK wind farm decline `` very dramatically '' with age ? David MacKay 's `` Map of the World '' - an update Version 3 of the 2050 Pathways Calculator TEDx talk : People , Power , Area Blog Archive 2015 ( 1 ) January ( 1 ) 2014 ( 8 ) November ( 1 ) September ( 1 ) August ( 2 ) June ( 2 ) May ( 1 ) February ( 1 ) 2013 ( 6 ) December ( 2 ) November ( 1 ) October ( 1 ) June ( 1 ) April ( 1 ) 2012 ( 5 ) December ( 1 ) August ( 1 ) July ( 1 ) March ( 1 ) January ( 1 ) 2011 ( 3 ) September ( 1 ) March ( 2 ) 2010 ( 12 ) December ( 2 ) November ( 1 ) October ( 1 ) September ( 2 ) August ( 1 ) July ( 1 ) May ( 2 ) January ( 2 ) 2009 ( 56 ) December ( 2 ) November ( 2 ) October ( 1 ) September ( 1 ) August ( 4 ) July ( 12 ) June ( 4 ) May ( 11 ) April ( 5 ) March ( 5 ) February ( 6 ) January ( 3 ) 2008 ( 15 ) December ( 2 ) November ( 1 ) October ( 2 ) Good article on 'green electricity ' . How to boil water September ( 2 ) July ( 2 ) June ( 2 ) March ( 2 ) February ( 1 ) January ( 1 ) 2007 ( 3 ) December ( 1 ) October ( 2 ) About Me David MacKay FRS Read the book - Sustainable Energy - without the hot air Read the other book - Information theory , inference , and learning algorithm View my complete profile UpTweet Subscribe To SEWTHA Posts Atom Posts Comments Atom Comments Followers Awesome Inc. template . Powered by Blogger . sustainable energy - without the hot air : how to boil water sustainable energy - without the hot air sunday , october 19 , 2008 how to boil water a friend tell me he 'd be fight with his kitchen-cohabitants over the question of whether to simply use the gas to make hot water for pasta , or whether to use the kettle , then put it in the pot . to answer this question quantitatively , i do some experiment and i 've write a new webpage , how much be inside hot water ? the page assume that the motivation be to save energy . the conclusion apply to britain today and to similar country . my conclusion be that use the gas hob be slightly well in energy term than use the kettle ; but my recommend behaviour depends on the time of year . in the winter , if you would like to have more heat in your kitchen , then use the gas hob alone be definitely best ; in the heat of summer , use the kettle may be preferable . disclaimer , small print ... if your motivation be to save money then the answer will depend on your fuel price . if your motivation be to cook the pasta a fast a possible then you should use neither method alone - you should use both the kettle and the hob , with roughly half in each . posted by david mackay fr at 12:59 pm 16 comment : iain say ... a relate common source of argument be the question of whether to fill the pan and/or kettle from the hot or cold tap . however , a an article in the new york time explains , the hot tap should be avoid for health and safety reason . october 19 , 2008 at 1:44 pm gavin say ... nice research - but i have an electric ( ceramic ) hob , should i use that or the kettle ? october 20 , 2008 at 5:22 am david mackay say ... @ gavin - i do n't know ; i expect it 's very close ; can you do the experiment and let u know ? october 20 , 2008 at 10:38 am alex say ... hi , former student here , i remember your lecture well , and am still a convince bayesian . anyway , how much water do you use ? can you say what % of the energy consume actually be need to heat the water from the initial temperature to 100c ? also , in japan they have kettle that keep the water hot at around 80c ( or hot if desire ) and let you decant it a and when desire . this struck me a be ludicrously inefficient . perhaps though with adequate insulation it might not be , compare to a method in which you boil a slightly excessive amount of water from cold for each pot of tea . any thought ? october 23 , 2008 at 4:48 am tapolak say ... david , i have have the same debate , but with respect to cofee & tea , not pasta . i just repeat your experiment , but i use a standard hob kettle on my gas stove . measured 0.73 cuft = 0.22 kwh gas to take 1 litre of water from 12 degc to full boiling . using your calcs , that be about 25 % less than the electric kettle us at the power station . i reckon that maybe a saucepan ( a you use ) waste about 30 % more energy by heat flow up the side . note i use a fairly small gas ring - if i have use a large one it would no doubt have be a bit more wasteful . anyway , on straight energy term , the gas kettle be significantly well . plus i get the bonus of an extra 0.1 kwh approx of heat in my home . rgds sandy october 28 , 2008 at 2:07 am oliver say ... i 've wonder about this on and off for age : thanks very much oliver morton ( on hot tap : surely relatively few home have lead in pipe now ? ) october 29 , 2008 at 4:34 am ecorenovation say ... and what about the microwave ! ! october 31 , 2008 at 10:07 am jeremy bickerstaffe say ... your analysis do n't include the efficiency of the gas distribution network . how much gas energy be lose by sending it to your house ? november 4 , 2008 at 2:17 am chris brown say ... microwave ? i attemped a simple experiment , boil a single cup of water ( 350ml ) for my tea , use the same kind of energy meter that david use . my 3kwh kettle consume 0.04 kwh of electricity to boil the water pour into it from the cup . the 900w microwave consume 0.07 kwh of electricity to boil the water in the tea cup . november 10 , 2008 at 2:31 am compost john say ... i love this blog and would like there to be a 'followers ' button , like i have on mine http : //lowcarbonlifestyle.blogspot.com/ ( scroll down , in the right-hand column ) when you have this application , i 'll become a follower and will be notify when you post . currently you be in my 'favourites ' list ! i boil water on my smokefree woodstove , which us virtually ( fossil ) carbon-free fuel ( brought to my house use cycle trailer ) , chop either by hand with bowsaw ( embody energy here ) or with my electric chainsaw ( embody energy here too , but leccy from 'good energy'.. 100 % renewables ) . i use the microwave to heat water in individual cup when the stove 's not lit , a the water heat be just that in the cup , whereas in a kettle , you heat usually more than one cup ... but , if i heat one cup to instant coffee temperature , it take 2 minute . two cup take 3 minute and three cup take just 3 and a half minutes ... so this should be take into consideration when decide to use the electric kettle , gas hob or microwave to heat water . i look forward to reading more post on this important subject ! john cossham , york , uk december 21 , 2008 at 2:08 pm philip machanick say ... gavin , let 's see how far we can go with david 's number . the total transaction with the kettle+gas stove be 0.36kwh . we should adjust this for the electric hob but the difference will be small ( a fraction of 0.06 ) so let 's use this a a baseline . the total energy need to make the water boil on an electric hob be the same a the kettle , less energy leakage from less efficient energy transfer . the first number be 0.3kwh , so a long a the energy transfer be at least 83 % efficient ( with respect to kettle=100 % ) , the stovetop method will be competitive . that number be not only a property of the stove but also the container , a a container with good thermal conductivity on the base than the side and lid will give good result . i suspect you would get good result overall if you train everyone to like their pasta al dente , so they cook it on average for 10 % less time . december 23 , 2008 at 4:55 pm madeleine.rampling say ... i be have an 'on-going- argument ... ! ! i have be happily use the gas hob with a prestige whisteling kettle for the last 5 year a the worktop space have always beens tres limitee in my kitchen in france.i am tell i be mad..wasting money and energy 'cos it take a ) longer b ) cost more to boil it on a gas hob . i disagree ! but then i be a female and english ... and the stove top space be only use when cook al dente pasta and make stock ... petit poi spinache etc ! ! help i 'm feed up with be make to feel a total idiot when i 'm not so sure ! ! mado december 6 , 2009 at 6:41 am alfacento say ... i 've be wonder about this for a while : there a lot to think about when your making a cuppa ! so , mado , and anyone else wonder ... reveiwing whats be say above , the amount of energy people have measure in thier home that it take to boil a litre of water be : gas hob ( small ring ) = 0.22kwh electric kettle = 0.11kwh in the uk gas cost about 0.05/kwh , and elctricity about 0.14/kwh , so ... thats go to cost you about : 1.1 penny ( gas ) , or 1.5 penny ( electric ) . ( nb . in france electrcity be about 4.3 euro cents/kwh , so it will cost about 0.5 euro cent to boil a litre in your electric kettle ... ) if it only cost you 're interested in then it a simple a that . ( assuming you only boil the amount you need and switch the hob off a soon a the water boil ) energy , though , be not create equally - gas normally come straight from source , eg by drilling into the earth and take it , whilst electricity on the other hand can be generate in many way . by far the most common in the world be coal or gas fire power station . ( about 75 % of electricity generation in the uk ) france however , generate a 75 % of it electricity from nuclear power station , whist some country such a norway generate 95 % of thier electricity from renewables ( hydro-electric ) . so although your kettle be consume the same kwh of electricity , the effect it be have on the climate , pollution etc will be very different depending which country you 're in . a coal or gas power station be about 30-40 % efficient , mean that for every unit of electricity you use in your home , at least 3 time as much energy have be use ( in the form of coal or gas ) to generate it ! so then the amount of coal or gas that be burnt to boil your litre of water in the electric kettle become about 0.33kwh and the `` greener '' option would seem to be gas . it a complex one . the economics be simple enough , but to really figure it out you need to know where the energy you use come from , how it produce , transport , how much be lose along the way etc etc . however it all out there on the internet if you have the time/incination ! here a couple of informative link : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/sustainable_energy http : //www.aepuk.com/need_info.php a a closing point , just to put the number we 're talk about into context , if you rig up your bike/rowing machine or similar with a modern , efficient electric generator , assume you 're a healthy fit human , you could produce electricity at a rate of about 100watts . you would need to keep pedalling/rowing at this rate ( hard ! ) for over an hour to produce the same 1.5 penny worth of electricity you 're kettle us in 3 minute boil a litre of water ... hope that help ! mark , edinburgh . december 16 , 2009 at 1:29 pm justin say ... this comment have be remove by a blog administrator . march 7 , 2010 at 8:13 am heavyweather say ... how about induction heater ... march 21 , 2011 at 3:33 am paul mott say ... it 's a shame that the appliance manufacturer , who sell `` coolwall '' toaster , do n't sell double-insulated ( physically , not electrically ! ) kettle . many folk , myself include , have plumb that mean hot water for the basin take a long time to flow from the hot tap , and entail the inefficient heating up of a long run of copper pip ( and it content ) - undesirable in summer . so we use a part-full kettle , and boil it rather often a an instant source of hot water for cleaning crockery etc . this would be a far more energy efficient act if kettle be sell with good thermal insulation ( e.g . two separate plastic skin ) . november 21 , 2011 at 9:17 am post a comment new post older post home subscribe to : post comment ( atom ) popular post wind farm wake petrol , diesel , mile per gallon , litre per 100 km , energy , and emission how to boil water shale gas in perspective wind farm power-per-unit-area data complete crowd-sourcing the iet 's 2050 pathway do uk wind farm decline `` very dramatically '' with age ? david mackay 's `` map of the world '' - an update version 3 of the 2050 pathway calculator tedx talk : people , power , area blog archive 2015 ( 1 ) january ( 1 ) 2014 ( 8 ) november ( 1 ) september ( 1 ) august ( 2 ) june ( 2 ) may ( 1 ) february ( 1 ) 2013 ( 6 ) december ( 2 ) november ( 1 ) october ( 1 ) june ( 1 ) april ( 1 ) 2012 ( 5 ) december ( 1 ) august ( 1 ) july ( 1 ) march ( 1 ) january ( 1 ) 2011 ( 3 ) september ( 1 ) march ( 2 ) 2010 ( 12 ) december ( 2 ) november ( 1 ) october ( 1 ) september ( 2 ) august ( 1 ) july ( 1 ) may ( 2 ) january ( 2 ) 2009 ( 56 ) december ( 2 ) november ( 2 ) october ( 1 ) september ( 1 ) august ( 4 ) july ( 12 ) june ( 4 ) may ( 11 ) april ( 5 ) march ( 5 ) february ( 6 ) january ( 3 ) 2008 ( 15 ) december ( 2 ) november ( 1 ) october ( 2 ) good article on 'green electricity ' . how to boil water september ( 2 ) july ( 2 ) june ( 2 ) march ( 2 ) february ( 1 ) january ( 1 ) 2007 ( 3 ) december ( 1 ) october ( 2 ) about me david mackay fr read the book - sustainable energy - without the hot air read the other book - information theory , inference , and learning algorithm view my complete profile uptweet subscribe to sewtha post atom post comment atom comment follower awesome inc. template . powered by blogger . 