Energy Efficient Refrigerators - SunFrost.com The world most elegant refrigerator be also the world 's most efficient ! Call today 707-822-9095 Refrigerators and Freezers Features Models Installations Gallery Vaccine Refrigerators Vaccine Refrigerators Direct Drive Freezer Specifications and Retail Price list Composting Toilets Sun Frost CS Human Humus Machine Home Composters Other Products Heliodons Blog Sun Frost Blog Concepts for Sustainable Living Contact Us Home Sun Frost Refrigerators be Made in U.S.A. ! For power outage , we can equip your Sun Frost refrigerator with a non-interruptible power supply ! Sun Frost refrigerator and freezer be so outstandingly energy-efficient , power a home with solar power or other low output energy source be both feasible and affordable . All model be available in 12 , 24 , or 48 volt DC , or 110 , 220 volt AC . Even in a home use conventional utility power , energy consumption for refrigeration be typically cut by a factor of five ! ( ARTICLE ) Sun Frost participate in the U.S. government ENERGY STAR program , and several of our model bear the ENERGY STAR label . Visit the ENERGY STAR web site at http : //www.energystar.gov . In addition to unrivaled energy efficiency , Sun Frost offer amenity not find in conventional refrigerator , such a high humidity , food-saving storage , ultra-quiet operation and an easy-to-clean interior . Every Sun Frost be custom craft - you choose the hinge side and finish . Your Sun Frost can be finish with a number of laminate or wood finish . We be now also offer a stainless steel option . Ask u ! Please use the link below to find out more about Sun Frost refrigerator . Download Sun Frost refrigerator brochure a a PDF file ( require Adobe Acrobat Reader ) Efficiency - Plus The Sun Frost refrigerator employ an array of important innovation to achieve it exceptionally low energy consumption . The cooling system on the Sun Frost be top mount . This reduces energy consumption several way . The heat generate by the compressor and condenser ( black coil on the back of many refrigerator ) do not reenter the refrigerator , and with a cooler-running condenser the efficiency of the cooling system be increase . Made in the USA Quiet Operation The condenser on Sun Frost refrigerator and freezer be cool passively , except our RF19 and F19 model , which use a quiet and highly efficient fan to help cool the condenser . Because of the efficient design of the Sun Frost , the compressor use run less often , be much small and produce correspondingly less noise than those find on a conventional refrigerator . These feature make the Sun Frost much quiet than a conventional AC refrigerator . Simple Defrost System Defrosting a Sun Frost be a simple process . Frost build-up in the Sun Frost freezer be very slow because there be no air circulate between the freezer and refrigerator section . The ice that form in the freezer collect primarily on the ceiling . When defrost the freezer section , the content of the freezer may be transfer to the refrigerator section so they remain freeze . After the refrigerator have be turn off for about twenty minute , the ice be easily remove in large piece . There be no mop-up because the ice do not need to be melt , only separate from the flat ceiling . Superior Storage Conditions Sun Frost refrigerator keep food fresher by maintaining high humidity . This prevents freezer burn and wilt cause by water loss . In a SUN FROST , food often last two to three time long than in conventional refrigerator . In typical refrigerator , the water contain in food be transform into ice on the freezer 's cooling coil . This process result in the dehydration of fruit and vegetable , increase energy consumption , and accelerate frost buildup . In a conventional refrigerator , high humidity be achieve by storing food in airtight container , which create high humidity condition , but cut off the food ' oxygen supply . Without oxygen , plant cell break down anaerobically , decrease shelf life . The Sun Frost allow you to store produce in breathable container , which considerably lengthen it shelf life . Fewer Solar Panels The SUN FROST RF16 typically consume 15 KWH per month . By contrast , the average refrigerator in a home consume 75 KWH per month . Producing the 75 KWH need to run this refrigerator in an off-grid solar power system would require an initial investment of at least $ 4,500 in hardware . The SUN FROST would require a $ 500 investment . Reliable The cooling system of the Sun Frost refrigerator contain a minimal number of move part . Both the DC and AC compressor incorporate highly reliable , hermetically seal , brushless motor . The efficient thermal design of Sun Frost refrigerator also contribute to their reliability . The top-mounted cooling system run at a low temperature than most , which prolongs the life of the system's lubricant and reduces mechanical strain on the compressor . The cooling system have prove itself to typically provide over twenty-five year of trouble free operation . Cooler Summer Kitchen During the summer , a typical refrigerator add a much heat to your kitchen a a 1000 watt heater run four hour per day ! The energy need by your air conditioner to remove this excess heat will be about half the energy consume by your refrigerator . Increasing the cost of run your refrigerator by an additional 50 % . By producing much less waste heat energy efficient refrigerator - sunfrost.com the world most elegant refrigerator be also the world 's most efficient ! call today 707-822-9095 refrigerator and freezer feature model installation gallery vaccine refrigerator vaccine refrigerator direct drive freezer specification and retail price list compost toilet sun frost c human humus machine home composters other product heliodons blog sun frost blog concept for sustainable living contact u home sun frost refrigerator be made in u.s.a. ! for power outage , we can equip your sun frost refrigerator with a non-interruptible power supply ! sun frost refrigerator and freezer be so outstandingly energy-efficient , power a home with solar power or other low output energy source be both feasible and affordable . all model be available in 12 , 24 , or 48 volt dc , or 110 , 220 volt ac . even in a home use conventional utility power , energy consumption for refrigeration be typically cut by a factor of five ! ( article ) sun frost participate in the u.s. government energy star program , and several of our model bear the energy star label . visit the energy star web site at http : //www.energystar.gov . in addition to unrivaled energy efficiency , sun frost offer amenity not find in conventional refrigerator , such a high humidity , food-saving storage , ultra-quiet operation and an easy-to-clean interior . every sun frost be custom craft - you choose the hinge side and finish . your sun frost can be finish with a number of laminate or wood finish . we be now also offer a stainless steel option . ask u ! please use the link below to find out more about sun frost refrigerator . download sun frost refrigerator brochure a a pdf file ( require adobe acrobat reader ) efficiency - plus the sun frost refrigerator employ an array of important innovation to achieve it exceptionally low energy consumption . the cooling system on the sun frost be top mount . this reduces energy consumption several way . the heat generate by the compressor and condenser ( black coil on the back of many refrigerator ) do not reenter the refrigerator , and with a cooler-running condenser the efficiency of the cooling system be increase . made in the usa quiet operation the condenser on sun frost refrigerator and freezer be cool passively , except our rf19 and f19 model , which use a quiet and highly efficient fan to help cool the condenser . because of the efficient design of the sun frost , the compressor use run less often , be much small and produce correspondingly less noise than those find on a conventional refrigerator . these feature make the sun frost much quiet than a conventional ac refrigerator . simple defrost system defrost a sun frost be a simple process . frost build-up in the sun frost freezer be very slow because there be no air circulate between the freezer and refrigerator section . the ice that form in the freezer collect primarily on the ceiling . when defrost the freezer section , the content of the freezer may be transfer to the refrigerator section so they remain freeze . after the refrigerator have be turn off for about twenty minute , the ice be easily remove in large piece . there be no mop-up because the ice do not need to be melt , only separate from the flat ceiling . superior storage condition sun frost refrigerator keep food fresher by maintaining high humidity . this prevents freezer burn and wilt cause by water loss . in a sun frost , food often last two to three time long than in conventional refrigerator . in typical refrigerator , the water contain in food be transform into ice on the freezer 's cooling coil . this process result in the dehydration of fruit and vegetable , increase energy consumption , and accelerate frost buildup . in a conventional refrigerator , high humidity be achieve by storing food in airtight container , which create high humidity condition , but cut off the food ' oxygen supply . without oxygen , plant cell break down anaerobically , decrease shelf life . the sun frost allow you to store produce in breathable container , which considerably lengthen it shelf life . few solar panel the sun frost rf16 typically consume 15 kwh per month . by contrast , the average refrigerator in a home consume 75 kwh per month . produce the 75 kwh need to run this refrigerator in an off-grid solar power system would require an initial investment of at least $ 4,500 in hardware . the sun frost would require a $ 500 investment . reliable the cooling system of the sun frost refrigerator contain a minimal number of move part . both the dc and ac compressor incorporate highly reliable , hermetically seal , brushless motor . the efficient thermal design of sun frost refrigerator also contribute to their reliability . the top-mounted cooling system run at a low temperature than most , which prolongs the life of the system's lubricant and reduces mechanical strain on the compressor . the cooling system have prove itself to typically provide over twenty-five year of trouble free operation . cooler summer kitchen during the summer , a typical refrigerator add a much heat to your kitchen a a 1000 watt heater run four hour per day ! the energy need by your air conditioner to remove this excess heat will be about half the energy consume by your refrigerator . increase the cost of run your refrigerator by an additional 50 % . by producing much less waste heat 