Standby Power : FAQs Home > FAQs Search Standby Power Frequently Asked Questions ( FAQs ) What exactly be standby power and why be it necessary ? Most expert agree that standby power be electricity use by appliance and equipment while they be switch off or not perform their primary function . That power be consume by power supply ( the black cubessometimes call `` vampire '' convert AC into DC ) , the circuit and sensor need to receive a remote signal , soft keypad and display include miscellaneous LED status light . Standby power use be also cause by circuit that continue to be energize even when the device be `` off '' . That definition be attractive to a lay person but inadequate for technical purpose . An international technical standard committee be develop a definition and test procedure . How can I identify product that draw standby power ? Almost any product with an external power supply , remote control , continuous display ( include an LED ) , or charge battery will draw power continuously . Sometimes there be no obvious sign of continuous power consumption and you need a meter to be certain . How much standby do my TV , microwave , etc . use ? We measure standby power in hundred of product . See here for a chart and a table . Other excellent source exist , notably an Australian measurement campaign , ENERGY STAR , and the Federal Energy Management Program . What be Watts ? Watts be a measure of power ( technically , Joules/second ) analogous to speed ( miles/hour ) . So you need to convert the power into energy ( like speed into distance ) . Here 's an easy conversion factor : if a device draw 1 watt constantly for a year , then it energy consumption be 9 kWh . That correspond to about $ 1.00 . So , when the chart say 5 watt , that 's 5 x 9 = 45 kWh/year = $ 5/year . You 'll quickly see that almost any single device consume very little in annual electricity use but , when multiply by 40+ product , the sum be significant . How can I reduce standby power use in my home ? It 's not easy , but here be some suggestion : If you be n't frequently use a device , unplug it . ( This work fine for the 6 th TV in the guest bedroom or the VCR . ) Warning , do n't frequently unplug and plug in appliance because you could get electrocute from fray wire and plug . Use a switchable power strip for cluster of computer or video product . That way you can switch everything to zero with one action . When shop , search for low standby product . ( Asking a salesperson will probably be a waste of time . ) ENERGY STAR product have low standby . Buy a low-cost watt-meter , measure the device in your home and take target action . You will certainly be surprise at what you discover and this exercise might even pay back the cost of the meter in saving . A list of watt-meters be here . Limited research suggest that an inform and aggressive approach can reduce standby use by about 30 % . Frankly , there be more productive way to save energy with an investment of an hour but if high standby energy use stand between you and the goal of a zero energy home , then it 's an hour well spend . Is standby power use necessary ? Sometimes . Certain appliance function do require small amount of electricity include : Maintaining signal reception capability ( for remote control , telephone or network signal ) Monitoring temperature or other condition ( such a in a refrigerator ) Powering an internal clock Battery charging Continuous display Good design can make the power requirement for these function very low ( but not yet zero ) . How much power be use for standby in the US ? ... Worldwide ? Nobody know for sure , but it 's typically 5-10 % of residential electricity use in most developed country and a rise fraction in the develop country ( especially in the city ) . Standby power in commercial building be small but still significant . Altogether , standby power use be roughly responsible for 1 % of global CO 2 emission . Is standby grow or shrink ? It 's probably grow . Programs direct at consumer electronics have stimulate manufacturer to cut standby power use in many product . At the same time , the number of new appliance that continuously draw power be increase rapidly , especially in the develop country . We suspect that standby continues to increase . Recent Japanese policy to reduce standby appear to be effective since the late study ( 2008 ) suggest that standby power be decrease . The reduction be a result of both improve technology and heighten consumer awareness . Can standby power consumption be reduce ? Yes . Many new technology can improve the efficiency of power supply , manage power use more carefully , and limit power use of display . We believe that it be technically feasible to reduce standby power by 75 % overall . Most saving will be less than a watt , but other case will be as large a 10 watt . Who coin the term `` energy vampire '' ? We do n't know . However , the term have be around since before 2001 . The vampire refers to the external power supplythe little black cubeswhich have two teeth ( the plug ) and `` suck '' electricity all night . The term `` leak electricity '' be coin by a Swedish engineer , Eje Sandberg , in 1993 . standby power : faq home > faq search standby power frequently ask question ( faq ) what exactly be standby power and why be it necessary ? most expert agree that standby power be electricity use by appliance and equipment while they be switch off or not perform their primary function . that power be consume by power supply ( the black cubessometimes call `` vampire '' convert ac into dc ) , the circuit and sensor need to receive a remote signal , soft keypad and display include miscellaneous led status light . standby power use be also cause by circuit that continue to be energize even when the device be `` off '' . that definition be attractive to a lay person but inadequate for technical purpose . an international technical standard committee be develop a definition and test procedure . how can i identify product that draw standby power ? almost any product with an external power supply , remote control , continuous display ( include an led ) , or charge battery will draw power continuously . sometimes there be no obvious sign of continuous power consumption and you need a meter to be certain . how much standby do my tv , microwave , etc . use ? we measure standby power in hundred of product . see here for a chart and a table . other excellent source exist , notably an australian measurement campaign , energy star , and the federal energy management program . what be watt ? watt be a measure of power ( technically , joules/second ) analogous to speed ( miles/hour ) . so you need to convert the power into energy ( like speed into distance ) . here 's an easy conversion factor : if a device draw 1 watt constantly for a year , then it energy consumption be 9 kwh . that correspond to about $ 1.00 . so , when the chart say 5 watt , that 's 5 x 9 = 45 kwh/year = $ 5/year . you 'll quickly see that almost any single device consume very little in annual electricity use but , when multiply by 40+ product , the sum be significant . how can i reduce standby power use in my home ? it 's not easy , but here be some suggestion : if you be n't frequently use a device , unplug it . ( this work fine for the 6 th tv in the guest bedroom or the vcr . ) warning , do n't frequently unplug and plug in appliance because you could get electrocute from fray wire and plug . use a switchable power strip for cluster of computer or video product . that way you can switch everything to zero with one action . when shop , search for low standby product . ( asking a salesperson will probably be a waste of time . ) energy star product have low standby . buy a low-cost watt-meter , measure the device in your home and take target action . you will certainly be surprise at what you discover and this exercise might even pay back the cost of the meter in saving . a list of watt-meters be here . limited research suggest that an inform and aggressive approach can reduce standby use by about 30 % . frankly , there be more productive way to save energy with an investment of an hour but if high standby energy use stand between you and the goal of a zero energy home , then it 's an hour well spend . be standby power use necessary ? sometimes . certain appliance function do require small amount of electricity include : maintain signal reception capability ( for remote control , telephone or network signal ) monitor temperature or other condition ( such a in a refrigerator ) power an internal clock battery charging continuous display good design can make the power requirement for these function very low ( but not yet zero ) . how much power be use for standby in the u ? ... worldwide ? nobody know for sure , but it 's typically 5-10 % of residential electricity use in most developed country and a rise fraction in the develop country ( especially in the city ) . standby power in commercial building be small but still significant . altogether , standby power use be roughly responsible for 1 % of global co 2 emission . be standby grow or shrink ? it 's probably grow . program direct at consumer electronics have stimulate manufacturer to cut standby power use in many product . at the same time , the number of new appliance that continuously draw power be increase rapidly , especially in the develop country . we suspect that standby continues to increase . recent japanese policy to reduce standby appear to be effective since the late study ( 2008 ) suggest that standby power be decrease . the reduction be a result of both improve technology and heighten consumer awareness . can standby power consumption be reduce ? yes . many new technology can improve the efficiency of power supply , manage power use more carefully , and limit power use of display . we believe that it be technically feasible to reduce standby power by 75 % overall . most saving will be less than a watt , but other case will be as large a 10 watt . who coin the term `` energy vampire '' ? we do n't know . however , the term have be around since before 2001 . the vampire refers to the external power supplythe little black cubeswhich have two teeth ( the plug ) and `` suck '' electricity all night . the term `` leak electricity '' be coin by a swedish engineer , eje sandberg , in 1993 . 