Shoppers rush to buy extra-strength vacuum cleaner before EU ban come into force - Environment - The Independent Friday 06 March 2015 Apps eBooks i Jobs Dating Shop News UK Home News UK Politics Scottish independence Crime Weird News World Europe Americas Middle East Asia Africa Australasia World Politics World History Novaya Gazeta ( English ) WW1 Moments Business Business News Business Comment Business Analysis & Features Sharewatch SME Market News Market Epic Market Heatmaps Market Screener Business Directory ES Business Connections Create a business profile People Science Environment Climate Change Green Living Nature Media Opinion TV & Radio Press Online Advertising Technology Education News Schools Further Higher Primary Tables 2011 Secondary Tables 2012 Training & Courses MBA & Executive Images Obituaries Diary Corrections Newsletter Appeals Video People Voices Sport Tech Life Property Arts + Ents Travel Money IndyBest Student Offers Victim Blaming Endometriosis Immigration George Osborne Greece Michael Gove News > Environment Shoppers rush to buy extra-strength vacuum cleaner before EU ban come into force Which ? accuse of encouraging the stampede by panicking it reader Tom Bawden Tom Bawden Tom Bawden be Energy and Resources Correspondent for The Independent and Evening Standard . More article from this journalist Follow Tom Bawden environment editor Tuesday 02 September 2014 Print Your friend 's email address Your email address Note : We do not store your email address ( e ) but your IP address will be log to prevent abuse of this feature . Please read our Legal Terms & Policies A A A Email There be no chance for the dust to settle in this battle , a those who oppose the EUs ban on high-powered vacuum cleaner be be accuse of Euroscepticism . Banning vacuum cleaner isnt about save the planet it about Brussels grabbing even more power , one right-wing tabloid thunder today , add to the chorus of opposition to the ban , which be accompany by a new energy-efficiency rating system . The medium coverage in the run-up to the ban on vacuum cleaner that use more than 1,600 watt , which be aim to help the environment by forcing vacuum cleaner to become more energy-efficient result in a stampede among shopper rush to buy powerful model before the ban come into effect , with Tesco reporting a 44 per cent hike in sale in the second half of August . The Boxing-Day sales- style rush be exacerbate by report that five of Which ? magazine seven best buy vacuum cleaner would be outlaw under the new ban , prompt the consumer bible to give consumer the follow heavily-quoted advice : If youre in the market for a powerful vacuum , you should act quickly , before all of the model currently available sell out . However , expert have now round on those who oppose the ban , dismiss their objection a mislead Euroscepticism . Theres a lot of hype around this new law , much of which appear to be motivate more by a dislike of Europe than any rational analysis of the fact , say Dr Robert Gross , director of the Centre for Energy Policy and Technology at Imperial College London . For a start , 1,600 watt be perfectly powerful enough for the vast majority of us . Second , numerous model will be unaffected by this change . Will consumer be bad off ? In my view , very few would have even notice if this issue hadnt be hype to the hilt by certain section of the press , Dr Gross add . Far from deal a blow to consumer , the new ban will actually help them , cut fuel bill and make vacuum cleaner quieter , accord to advocate . The rule will make the average vacuum cleaner 63 per cent more efficient , cut Europes collective household energy bill by 2.4bn a year or 11 per household , accord to EU data . The maximum wattage will be reduce to 900 watt by September 2017 , a target which expert say be clearly more ambitious but still perfectly feasible , with James Dyson use motor a small a 700 watt since 2008 . But what of the Which ? advice to go out and buy a powerful cleaner ? The answer lie in the very next sentence in the release . Despite what be be widely report by some other medium outlet , a large motor size do not guarantee impressive action . Our independent testing have find many Best Buy vacuum under 1,600 watt , prove that clever engineering and a well-designed floorhead be equally , if not more important , than a powerful motor . World News in Pictures Enter URL : Enter URL : Voices A huge gift from Lloyds Bank help our campaign reach a record-breaking 1m in donation Homeless Veterans appeal Evgeny Lebedev : Now we can change more life for the good Life and Style What do happen to male chick in the UK once they hatch ? food + drink Sport Terminally ill football fan delay euthanasia to see team 'win one last time' football Life and Style The big fresh food con food + drink The alarming truth behind the chocolate muffin that wo n't decay News Minecraft creator sell his $ 2.5bn stake to Microsoft after one tweet business Arts and Entertainment The 9 rule every Wile E. Coyote and Road Runner cartoon have to follow TV News Hubble Telescope confirms Einstein 's theory of relativity science Voices Ukips immigration plan be workable and fair voice Yet when we talk about it , the national medium go into a frenzy , say Nigel Farage Sport Paul Scholes column football I do n't believe Evans be spit at Ciss . It be a reflex . But what the Newcastle striker do next be horrible Paul Scholes : Emirates be the easy option for zil . He need a leader - and Arsenal do n't have them News The video of Taylor Swift that highlight the darker side of fame people News Revolutionary new self-clean coating could spell the end of washday science News 10 food you can eat after their sell-by date i100 News Celebrating the whirlwind wit of Simone de Beauvoir people Her seminal feminist polemic , The Second Sex , have be publish in short-form to mark International Women 's Day News 12 quote that explain why we should all be read more i100 Arts and Entertainment The wrong arm of the law , very stylishly flex film Review : Hyena take corruption and sleaziness to a truly epic level Please provide search keyword ( s ) Advanced search Article archive Topics Most Viewed Most Shared Most Commented Woodpecker and weasel : This be what the photographer have to say about the incredible picture At long last , Australia be able to halt the relentless advance of the cane toad The ugly animal on earth : Blobfish , axolotl and proboscis monkey battle it out to be name least attractive beast Snowfalls be now just a thing of the past Animal Extinction - the great threat to mankind 1 What happens to your body when you give up sugar ? 2 Have sex with your iPad thanks to the new sex toy no-one ask for 3 The 'sex selfie stick ' let you FaceTime the inside of a vagina 4 Why you 're almost certainly more like your father than your mother 5 Westboro Baptist Church could n't picket Leonard Nimoy 's funeral because they do n't know where it be Durham Free School : 'Creationism taught at ' free school face closure Jamie Campbell Nearly 100,000 of Britain 's poor child go hungry after parent ' benefit be cut Ian Johnston Ukip would cut billion from Scottish budget to fund English tax cut Oliver Wright End of the licence fee : BBC to back radical overhaul of how it be fund Adam Sherwin Ukraine crisis : Top Chinese diplomat back Putin and say West should 'abandon zero-sum mentality' Zachary Davies Boren Boris Nemtsov shoot dead : Outspoken Putin critic who have express fear for his life be kill near the Kremlin Lewis Smith independent image World Book Day 2015 Ayesha Ali death Becky Watts murder Cape Town wildfire Chile 's volcano eruption Japanese island overrun with cat World news in picture UK news in picture Arts + Ents news in picture Sport news in picture < Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next > SPONSORED FEATURES Legendary isle of night The festival that make rocknroll history boast a star-studded line up . Crowdfunding Prizes & offer Business video Crowdfunding : The end-end solution for business success . Calling all entrepreneur ! See how crowdfunding can provide you with a full-circle , end to end solution for your business . Isle of Wight Prizes & offer Business video Enter the late Independent competition Win anything from gadget to five-star holiday on our competition and offer page . Isle of Wight Crowdfunding Business video Business video from commercial thought leader Watch the best in the business world give their insight into the world of business . Isle of Wight Crowdfunding Prizes & offer iJobs General Recruitment Genius : Finance Assistant / Credit Controller 16000 - 18000 per annum : Recruitment Genius : They be an award-winning digit ... Ashdown Group : Senior VMware Platform Engineer - VMware / SAN / Tier3 DC 45000 - 55000 per annum + benefit : Ashdown Group : Senior VMware Platform En ... Recruitment Genius : Purchasing Assistant 10000 - 16000 per annum : Recruitment Genius : A distributor of specialist ele ... Recruitment Genius : Sales Ledger Assistant 17000 - 19000 per annum : Recruitment Genius : A distributor of specialist ele ... View the late from iJobs Day In a Page Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Go Homeless Veterans campaign Donations hit record-breaking 1m target after huge gift from Lloyds Bank Lost without a trace But , a year on , the search continue for Flight MH370 Germany 's spy HQ spring a leak Thieves break into new 1.5bn complex ... to steal tap Whirlwind wit of Simone de Beauvoir Simone de Beauvoir 's seminal feminist polemic , 'The Second Sex ' , have be publish in short-form for International Women 's Day Mark Zuckerbergs hiring policy might suit him but it wouldnt work for me Why would I want to employ someone Id be happy to have a my bos , ask Simon Kelner Confessions of a planespotter With three Britons under arrest in the UAE , the peril have never be more apparent . Sam Masters explain the appeal Russia 's gulag museum Ministry of Culture-run site 'makes no mention ' of Stalin 's atrocity The big fresh food con Joanna Blythman reveals the alarm truth behind the chocolate muffin that wo n't decay Virginia Ironside be my landlady Tim Willis reveals what it 's like to live with an agony aunt on call 24/7 Paris Fashion Week 2015 The wit and wisdom of Manish Arora 's exercise in high camp 8 best workout DVDs If your 'New Year new you ' regime hasnt last beyond February , why not try working out from home ? Paul Scholes column I do n't believe Evans be spit at Ciss . It be a reflex . But what the Newcastle striker do next be horrible From the Azteca to Vicarage Road with a million follower Miguel Layun be a star in Mexico where he be criticise for leaving to join Watford . But he say he see the big picture Khan ready to meet winner of Mayweather v Pacquiao The Bolton fighter be unlikely to take on Kell Brook with two superstar opponent on the horizon , say Frank Warren Baghdad fight to win back Tikrit from Isis but then what ? Patrick Cockburn report from Kirkuk on a conflict which sectarianism have make intractable Terms & Policies Privacy Policy Cookie policy Code of Conduct Complaint form Email newsletter RSS Live Blogs About i100 Contact Us Subscriptions Apps Work for u Evening Standard Homes & Property iJobs News video Sport video Advertising Guide Syndication Novaya Gazeta ( English ) ES Business Connections ES Rentals London Live independent.co.uk Please provide search keyword ( s ) Advanced search Article archive Topics shopper rush to buy extra-strength vacuum cleaner before eu ban come into force - environment - the independent friday 06 march 2015 apps ebooks i job date shop news uk home news uk politics scottish independence crime weird news world europe america middle east asia africa australasia world politics world history novaya gazeta ( english ) ww1 moment business business news business comment business analysis & feature sharewatch sme market news market epic market heatmaps market screener business directory e business connection create a business profile people science environment climate change green living nature medium opinion tv & radio press online advertise technology education news school far high primary table 2011 secondary table 2012 train & course mba & executive image obituary diary correction newsletter appeal video people voice sport tech life property art + ents travel money indybest student offer victim blaming endometriosis immigration george osborne greece michael gove news > environment shopper rush to buy extra-strength vacuum cleaner before eu ban come into force which ? accuse of encouraging the stampede by panicking it reader tom bawden tom bawden tom bawden be energy and resource correspondent for the independent and evening standard . more article from this journalist follow tom bawden environment editor tuesday 02 september 2014 print your friend 's email address your email address note : we do not store your email address ( e ) but your ip address will be log to prevent abuse of this feature . please read our legal term & policy a a a email there be no chance for the dust to settle in this battle , a those who oppose the eu ban on high-powered vacuum cleaner be be accuse of euroscepticism . ban vacuum cleaner isnt about save the planet it about brussels grabbing even more power , one right-wing tabloid thunder today , add to the chorus of opposition to the ban , which be accompany by a new energy-efficiency rating system . the medium coverage in the run-up to the ban on vacuum cleaner that use more than 1,600 watt , which be aim to help the environment by forcing vacuum cleaner to become more energy-efficient result in a stampede among shopper rush to buy powerful model before the ban come into effect , with tesco reporting a 44 per cent hike in sale in the second half of august . the boxing-day sales- style rush be exacerbate by report that five of which ? magazine seven best buy vacuum cleaner would be outlaw under the new ban , prompt the consumer bible to give consumer the follow heavily-quoted advice : if youre in the market for a powerful vacuum , you should act quickly , before all of the model currently available sell out . however , expert have now round on those who oppose the ban , dismiss their objection a mislead euroscepticism . there a lot of hype around this new law , much of which appear to be motivate more by a dislike of europe than any rational analysis of the fact , say dr robert gross , director of the centre for energy policy and technology at imperial college london . for a start , 1,600 watt be perfectly powerful enough for the vast majority of us . second , numerous model will be unaffected by this change . will consumer be bad off ? in my view , very few would have even notice if this issue hadnt be hype to the hilt by certain section of the press , dr gross add . far from deal a blow to consumer , the new ban will actually help them , cut fuel bill and make vacuum cleaner quieter , accord to advocate . the rule will make the average vacuum cleaner 63 per cent more efficient , cut europe collective household energy bill by 2.4bn a year or 11 per household , accord to eu data . the maximum wattage will be reduce to 900 watt by september 2017 , a target which expert say be clearly more ambitious but still perfectly feasible , with james dyson use motor a small a 700 watt since 2008 . but what of the which ? advice to go out and buy a powerful cleaner ? the answer lie in the very next sentence in the release . despite what be be widely report by some other medium outlet , a large motor size do not guarantee impressive action . our independent testing have find many best buy vacuum under 1,600 watt , prove that clever engineering and a well-designed floorhead be equally , if not more important , than a powerful motor . world news in picture enter url : enter url : voice a huge gift from lloyd bank help our campaign reach a record-breaking 1m in donation homeless veteran appeal evgeny lebedev : now we can change more life for the good life and style what do happen to male chick in the uk once they hatch ? food + drink sport terminally ill football fan delay euthanasia to see team 'win one last time' football life and style the big fresh food con food + drink the alarming truth behind the chocolate muffin that wo n't decay news minecraft creator sell his $ 2.5bn stake to microsoft after one tweet business art and entertainment the 9 rule every wile e. coyote and road runner cartoon have to follow tv news hubble telescope confirms einstein 's theory of relativity science voice ukips immigration plan be workable and fair voice yet when we talk about it , the national medium go into a frenzy , say nigel farage sport paul scholes column football i do n't believe evans be spit at cis . it be a reflex . but what the newcastle striker do next be horrible paul scholes : emirate be the easy option for zil . he need a leader - and arsenal do n't have them news the video of taylor swift that highlight the darker side of fame people news revolutionary new self-clean coating could spell the end of washday science news 10 food you can eat after their sell-by date i100 news celebrate the whirlwind wit of simone de beauvoir people her seminal feminist polemic , the second sex , have be publish in short-form to mark international woman 's day news 12 quote that explain why we should all be read more i100 art and entertainment the wrong arm of the law , very stylishly flex film review : hyena take corruption and sleaziness to a truly epic level please provide search keyword ( s ) advanced search article archive topic most view most share most comment woodpecker and weasel : this be what the photographer have to say about the incredible picture at long last , australia be able to halt the relentless advance of the cane toad the ugly animal on earth : blobfish , axolotl and proboscis monkey battle it out to be name least attractive beast snowfall be now just a thing of the past animal extinction - the great threat to mankind 1 what happens to your body when you give up sugar ? 2 have sex with your ipad thanks to the new sex toy no-one ask for 3 the 'sex selfie stick ' let you facetime the inside of a vagina 4 why you 're almost certainly more like your father than your mother 5 westboro baptist church could n't picket leonard nimoy 's funeral because they do n't know where it be durham free school : 'creationism taught at ' free school face closure jamie campbell nearly 100,000 of britain 's poor child go hungry after parent ' benefit be cut ian johnston ukip would cut billion from scottish budget to fund english tax cut oliver wright end of the licence fee : bbc to back radical overhaul of how it be fund adam sherwin ukraine crisis : top chinese diplomat back putin and say west should 'abandon zero-sum mentality' zachary davy boren boris nemtsov shoot dead : outspoken putin critic who have express fear for his life be kill near the kremlin lewis smith independent image world book day 2015 ayesha ali death becky watt murder cape town wildfire chile 's volcano eruption japanese island overrun with cat world news in picture uk news in picture art + ents news in picture sport news in picture < previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 next > sponsored feature legendary isle of night the festival that make rocknroll history boast a star-studded line up . crowdfunding prize & offer business video crowdfunding : the end-end solution for business success . call all entrepreneur ! see how crowdfunding can provide you with a full-circle , end to end solution for your business . isle of wight prize & offer business video enter the late independent competition win anything from gadget to five-star holiday on our competition and offer page . isle of wight crowdfunding business video business video from commercial thought leader watch the best in the business world give their insight into the world of business . isle of wight crowdfunding prize & offer ijobs general recruitment genius : finance assistant / credit controller 16000 - 18000 per annum : recruitment genius : they be an award-winning digit ... ashdown group : senior vmware platform engineer - vmware / san / tier3 dc 45000 - 55000 per annum + benefit : ashdown group : senior vmware platform en ... recruitment genius : purchasing assistant 10000 - 16000 per annum : recruitment genius : a distributor of specialist ele ... recruitment genius : sale ledger assistant 17000 - 19000 per annum : recruitment genius : a distributor of specialist ele ... view the late from ijobs day in a page sun mon tue wed thu fri sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 january february march april may june july august september october november december 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 go homeless veteran campaign donation hit record-breaking 1m target after huge gift from lloyd bank lost without a trace but , a year on , the search continue for flight mh370 germany 's spy hq spring a leak thief break into new 1.5bn complex ... to steal tap whirlwind wit of simone de beauvoir simone de beauvoir 's seminal feminist polemic , 'the second sex ' , have be publish in short-form for international woman 's day mark zuckerbergs hiring policy might suit him but it wouldnt work for me why would i want to employ someone id be happy to have a my bos , ask simon kelner confession of a planespotter with three briton under arrest in the uae , the peril have never be more apparent . sam master explain the appeal russia 's gulag museum ministry of culture-run site 'makes no mention ' of stalin 's atrocity the big fresh food con joanna blythman reveals the alarm truth behind the chocolate muffin that wo n't decay virginia ironside be my landlady tim willis reveals what it 's like to live with an agony aunt on call 24/7 paris fashion week 2015 the wit and wisdom of manish arora 's exercise in high camp 8 best workout dvd if your 'new year new you ' regime hasnt last beyond february , why not try working out from home ? paul scholes column i do n't believe evans be spit at cis . it be a reflex . but what the newcastle striker do next be horrible from the azteca to vicarage road with a million follower miguel layun be a star in mexico where he be criticise for leaving to join watford . but he say he see the big picture khan ready to meet winner of mayweather v pacquiao the bolton fighter be unlikely to take on kell brook with two superstar opponent on the horizon , say frank warren baghdad fight to win back tikrit from isi but then what ? patrick cockburn report from kirkuk on a conflict which sectarianism have make intractable term & policy privacy policy cookie policy code of conduct complaint form email newsletter r live blog about i100 contact u subscription apps work for u even standard home & property ijobs news video sport video advertise guide syndication novaya gazeta ( english ) e business connection e rental london live independent.co.uk please provide search keyword ( s ) advanced search article archive topic 