Photovoltaic Tutorial : Home Solar Power - Installing and Connecting to the Grid Photovoltaic Tutorial Table of Contents : Introduction ( see below ) Anatomy of a PV Panel Read ... Module Specs and Features Read ... Array Orientation and Placement Read ... Choosing the Right Inverter Read ... Racking and Mounts Read ... Electrical Components Read ... System Monitoring , Micro-Inverters & DC Optimizers Read ... Battery Backup , Wind Turbine , Solar Water Heater & Engine Generator Read ... Step-by-Step Process for Going Solar Read ... Introduction Note : To look up photovoltaic term highlight in yellow throughout this guide , we recommend that you bookmark this glossary provide by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory ( NREL ) . A home solar electric system be basically a power plant build to serve one customer -- you . Even well , the source of it energy do n't need to be mine , drill or haul anywhere for processing . There's no trail of toxic pollutant and greenhouse gas . The sun just sit there in the sky , open for business most day of the year , give away it joule for free . Who say fight climate change have to be difficult ? With photovoltaics , you can tap into that hydrogen gold mine above a easily a flip on a light switch in your house . solarenergyfactsblog.com Most home photovoltaic system supplement power from the utility grid , provide the same high-quality AC current need to power appliance , light , tool and other load . An inverter transforms the DC electricity from the solar array once it move downstream to your main service panel . Whatever electricity be not need immediately in your home get deposit into the grid , available for use elsewhere in the neighborhood . Naturally , your meter will record that contribution . While the cash outlay for a home PV system be on par with a new automobile , the investment should earn you big money over the long haul . For the average homeowner , the breakeven point be typically about seven year . After that , your earnings start to accrue on utility charge you no longer pay each month . And if financing the system purchase be a problem , an FHA energy efficient mortgage may be available to cover the cost of the installation . Tax credit and rebate be also available . Moreover , since utility rate be expect to spike in come year , it mean your decision to go solar now can amount to a huge cash bonanza down the road . Now here 's the very good news ... Through the tax year of 2016 , the IRS will reimburse a homeowner for 30 percent of the cost of a qualifying PV system in the form of an income tax credit . For example , if your system cost $ 24,000 , your credit be $ 8,000 . Add to that other incentive program offer jointly by state government and utility company , and you can recoup up to 40 percent of your investment within a year ( or less ) of your system go online ! See Tax Credits and Incentives for detail . There be other perk a well . Depending on the utility company , payment of your monthly kilowatt hour charge may be defer for a year once your PV system go online . That can add up to $ 1,200 or more . ( You can use this money to make loan payment instead . ) At the end of 12 month ' time , the utility will true up your bill , subtract your earnings in solar power from those kilowatt furnish by the grid . Either you 'll pay the difference , or the utility will issue a credit for what it owe you . If you ca n't get a loan or find the money to purchase a solar power system outright ( which be usually the best approach ) , in some state you can lease the equipment or enter into what 's call a Power Purchasing Agreement . A PPA let another company finance the installation and own the equipment . Then that company act a your solar utility . Diagram show the flow of energy through an off-grid PV system . In order to store generate power for late use , a bank of battery be need . A charge controller regulate the flow of PV electricity into the battery so they wo n't get over or under charged . Although most grid-tied ( i.e . grid-connected ) system do n't use battery , have back-up power for long-term outage be not a bad idea . What 's include in this tutorial This online guide introduces you to the component of a residential grid-tied PV system . It also explore option like a backup battery bank and data monitor equipment . While your local solar company can provide some of this information , it help to be an inform shopper . Nowadays , many company charge $ 200 for the initial home visit and site survey . While they may offer to cancel the fee if you agree to their purchase term , should you decide not to accept the company 's bid , you 'll be out all the cash . So read on . Once you learn about all the equipment and how it 's fasten together to generate electricity , you 'll be ready to tackle the next tutorial on this website , Steps to Going Solar . This guide walk you through the site assessment , system size , component selection , and installation detail . You 'll also find a complete set of size worksheet . ( While you may not be interested in the nut and bolt of plan an installation , be sure to take a peak at the cost/payback/profit analysis on the worksheet menu . ) Of course , TheSolarPlanner.com recommends that you hire a license contractor to oversee or complete the task involve in any installation . No building inspector will approve the work if it do n't meet the requirement of the National Electric Code and local ordinance . So if you do decide to take a chance and go it alone , you good do your homework first . energysavers.gov Whether your home 's solar power will plug into a utility grid , or act a a standalone unit , your contractor will design a system to generate sufficient power to meet your need for 20+ year . Standalone PV system require detail planningto cover 100 % of your electrical need , since there 's no power grid to fall back on . On the other hand . most city/suburban home use grid-tied system that offset only a portion of what the power grid provide . That 's because your utility's baseline rate be relatively cheap . So cheap , in fact , that it might require 20 year to reach a breakeven point if you be to produce 100 % of the electricity you need annually . It 's more practical to offset just the high tiered or peak rate , since this be where utility customer generally get take to the cleaner each month . Thus , the majority of grid-tied PV system be design to deliver a 30-65 % offset , which mean a system size of 2-6 kilowatt and a price tag ( before tax credit ) of $ 12,000 to $ 24,000 . Once the solar electric system be instal and commission , your role a homeowner consists mainly of watch your net meter pile up the energy credit , sort of like a stock that never go down ( except maybe in winter ) . Since most photovoltaic panel ( aka module ) be guarantee to produce power efficiently for 25 year , you 'll probably never need to replace them . Only occasional cleaning and inspection be necessary after the system be up and run , since there be no move part or motor to worry about . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Next : Anatomy of a PV Panel - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Return to Home Page -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Copyright 2012 -2015TheSolarPlanner.com Send any feedback or suggestion to info [ at ] thesolarplanner dot com . -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - Also Sponsored by The City Edition : Welders Universe Filmsprings.com The Mega-Disaster Planner Menu Home Tutorial Intro Panels Module Specs Array Orientation Inverters Racking & Mounts Electrical Devices System Monitoring , MicroInverters & DC Optimizers Battery Backup , Wind Turbine , Water Heating , AC Generator Steps to Going Solar Tax Credits & Incentives Guides & Videos Links ( Includes Installers , Shopping and Jobs ) Calculators , Tools & Apps About Site Map 