About real estate company 's firm size and the production of energy-efficient housing service - Evidence from Germany 's redisential buy-to-let market Advanced Search Papers Articles Authors Institutions Data ( FRED ) Advanced Search IDEAS home Browse for material Papers Articles Software Books Chapters Authors Institutions Data ( FRED ) Find material JEL Classification NEP report Search Pub compilation Reading list More option be now at bottom of page IDEAS be a service host by the Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis You , too , can help improve RePEc : volunteer ! Printed from http : //ideas.repec.org/ Share : MyIDEAS : Login to save this paper or follow this series About real estate company 's firm size and the production of energy-efficient housing service - Evidence from Germany 's redisential buy-to-let market Contents : Author info Abstract Bibliographic info Download info Related research References Citations Lists Statistics Corrections Author Info Michelsen , Sebastian Rosenschon Schulz , Christian Registered author ( s ) : Claus Michelsen Abstract This paper investigate the effect of housing company firm size on the outcome of energetic refurbishment . We argue that economy of scale , economy of scope and effect of learn should have an impact on the production of energy efficient housing service . To test our hypothesis , we use a unique dataset derive from energy consumption bill . The data contain information on the exact energy requirement of a dwelling , it size , age and the level of refurbishment . In particular , we rely on information on roughly 100,000 multifamily house . Besides owner characteristic and refurbishment effort , we introduce several control variable to capture vintage , size and spatial effect . We find strong evidence for the presence of firm-specific , in particular size effect on the energetic outcome of refurbishment . We find that professional housing company ( a company own more than 1000 flat in their portfolio ) reduce the energy requirement by about 37.1 % when major part ( roof , facade , windows , basement ceiling and heating system ) of the dwelling be refurbish within the last 15 year . In contrast , single unit owner ( own up to 20 flat ) reduce energy requirement only by 12.3 % , even when for dwell attribute like size , age and spatial location be control for . Moreover , difference between firm type increase with refurbishment effort . This inquiry contribute to the literature on housing service supply a well a to the ongoing political debate on the reduction of CO2 emission . For example , the introduction of Germanys federal governmental concept for climate protection in autumn 2010 let to a fierce controversy on the feasibility of the introduce target on energy efficiency improvement in the exist housing stock in particular because of the plan to introduce redevelopment obligation for all landlord . After intense protest , this strategy be withdraw , predominantly because the law do not distinguish between real estate characteristic . The present paper add the aspect of firm size to the discussion . Download Info If you experience problem download a file , check if you have the proper application to view it first . In case of further problem read the IDEAS help page . Note that these file be not on the IDEAS site . Please be patient a the file may be large . File URL : http : //eres.architexturez.net/doc/oai-eres.id-eres2012_305 Download Restriction : no Bibliographic Info Paper provide by European Real Estate Society ( ERES ) in it series ERES with number eres2012_305 . a HTML HTML with abstract plain text plain text with abstract BibTeX RIS ( EndNote , RefMan , ProCite ) ReDIF JSON in new window Length : Date of creation : 2012 Date of revision : Handle : RePEc : arz : wpaper : eres2012_305 Contact detail of provider : Web page : http : //eres.architexturez.net Email : More information through EDIRC Related research Keywords : References No reference list on IDEAS You can help add them by filling out this form . Citations The CitEc project have not yet find citation to this item . Lists This item be not list on Wikipedia , on a reading list or among the top item on IDEAS . Statistics Access and download statistic Corrections When request a correction , please mention this item 's handle : RePEc : arz : wpaper : eres2012_305 . See general information about how to correct material in RePEc . For technical question regard this item , or to correct it author , title , abstract , bibliographic or download information , contact : ( Architexturez Imprints ) If you have author this item and be not yet register with RePEc , we encourage you to do it here . This allow to link your profile to this item . It also allow you to accept potential citation to this item that we be uncertain about . If reference be entirely miss , you can add them use this form . If the full reference list an item that be present in RePEc , but the system do not link to it , you can help with this form . If you know of miss item cite this one , you can help u create those link by add the relevant reference in the same way a above , for each refer item . If you be a register author of this item , you may also want to check the `` citation '' tab in your profile , a there may be some citation wait for confirmation . Please note that correction may take a couple of week to filter through the various RePEc service . More service MyIDEAS Follow series , journal , author & more New paper by email Subscribe to new addition to RePEc Author registration Public profile for Economics researcher Rankings Various ranking of research in Economics & related field Genealogy Who be a student of whom , use RePEc RePEc Biblio Curated article & paper various economics topic EconAcademics Blog aggregator for economics research Plagiarism Cases of plagiarism in Economics Job Market Papers RePEc working paper series dedicate to the job market Fantasy League Pretend you be at the helm of an economics department Services from the StL Fed Data , research , apps & more from the St. Louis Fed About RePEc RePEc home FAQ Blog Help ! RePEc team Participating archive Privacy Legal How to help Corrections Volunteers Get paper list Open a RePEc archive This information be provide to you by IDEAS at the Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis use RePEc data . Top of page about real estate company 's firm size and the production of energy-efficient housing service - evidence from germany 's redisential buy-to-let market advanced search paper article author institution data ( fred ) advanced search idea home browse for material paper article software book chapter author institution data ( fred ) find material jel classification nep report search pub compilation read list more option be now at bottom of page idea be a service host by the research division of the federal reserve bank of st. louis you , too , can help improve repec : volunteer ! printed from http : //ideas.repec.org/ share : myideas : login to save this paper or follow this series about real estate company 's firm size and the production of energy-efficient housing service - evidence from germany 's redisential buy-to-let market content : author info abstract bibliographic info download info related research reference citation list statistic correction author info michelsen , sebastian rosenschon schulz , christian registered author ( s ) : claus michelsen abstract this paper investigate the effect of housing company firm size on the outcome of energetic refurbishment . we argue that economy of scale , economy of scope and effect of learn should have an impact on the production of energy efficient housing service . to test our hypothesis , we use a unique dataset derive from energy consumption bill . the data contain information on the exact energy requirement of a dwelling , it size , age and the level of refurbishment . in particular , we rely on information on roughly 100,000 multifamily house . besides owner characteristic and refurbishment effort , we introduce several control variable to capture vintage , size and spatial effect . we find strong evidence for the presence of firm-specific , in particular size effect on the energetic outcome of refurbishment . we find that professional housing company ( a company own more than 1000 flat in their portfolio ) reduce the energy requirement by about 37.1 % when major part ( roof , facade , windows , basement ceiling and heating system ) of the dwelling be refurbish within the last 15 year . in contrast , single unit owner ( own up to 20 flat ) reduce energy requirement only by 12.3 % , even when for dwell attribute like size , age and spatial location be control for . moreover , difference between firm type increase with refurbishment effort . this inquiry contribute to the literature on housing service supply a well a to the ongoing political debate on the reduction of co2 emission . for example , the introduction of germany federal governmental concept for climate protection in autumn 2010 let to a fierce controversy on the feasibility of the introduce target on energy efficiency improvement in the exist housing stock in particular because of the plan to introduce redevelopment obligation for all landlord . after intense protest , this strategy be withdraw , predominantly because the law do not distinguish between real estate characteristic . the present paper add the aspect of firm size to the discussion . download info if you experience problem download a file , check if you have the proper application to view it first . in case of further problem read the idea help page . note that these file be not on the idea site . please be patient a the file may be large . file url : http : //eres.architexturez.net/doc/oai-eres.id-eres2012_305 download restriction : no bibliographic info paper provide by european real estate society ( eres ) in it series eres with number eres2012_305 . a html html with abstract plain text plain text with abstract bibtex ri ( endnote , refman , procite ) redif json in new window length : date of creation : 2012 date of revision : handle : repec : arz : wpaper : eres2012_305 contact detail of provider : web page : http : //eres.architexturez.net email : more information through edirc related research keywords : reference no reference list on idea you can help add them by filling out this form . citation the citec project have not yet find citation to this item . list this item be not list on wikipedia , on a reading list or among the top item on idea . statistic access and download statistic correction when request a correction , please mention this item 's handle : repec : arz : wpaper : eres2012_305 . see general information about how to correct material in repec . for technical question regard this item , or to correct it author , title , abstract , bibliographic or download information , contact : ( architexturez imprint ) if you have author this item and be not yet register with repec , we encourage you to do it here . this allow to link your profile to this item . it also allow you to accept potential citation to this item that we be uncertain about . if reference be entirely miss , you can add them use this form . if the full reference list an item that be present in repec , but the system do not link to it , you can help with this form . if you know of miss item cite this one , you can help u create those link by add the relevant reference in the same way a above , for each refer item . if you be a register author of this item , you may also want to check the `` citation '' tab in your profile , a there may be some citation wait for confirmation . please note that correction may take a couple of week to filter through the various repec service . more service myideas follow series , journal , author & more new paper by email subscribe to new addition to repec author registration public profile for economics researcher ranking various ranking of research in economics & related field genealogy who be a student of whom , use repec repec biblio curated article & paper various economics topic econacademics blog aggregator for economics research plagiarism case of plagiarism in economics job market paper repec working paper series dedicate to the job market fantasy league pretend you be at the helm of an economics department service from the stl fed data , research , apps & more from the st. louis fed about repec repec home faq blog help ! repec team participate archive privacy legal how to help correction volunteer get paper list open a repec archive this information be provide to you by idea at the research division of the federal reserve bank of st. louis use repec data . top of page 