Ask Pablo : Electric Kettle , Stove , or Microwave Oven ? : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social Ask Pablo : Electric Kettle , Stove , or Microwave Oven ? Pablo Paster Technology / Clean Technology November 23 , 2009 Share on Facebook Image Source : Velo Steve Dear Pablo , For boiling water what be the most efficient , an electric kettle , a pot on a stove , or a microwave ? Whether you be make tea or cook pasta , know which of these three option be the most efficient way to boil water can help you become a good tree hugger and might even save you a bit of money . Through some quick measurement and calculation I hope to provide a definitive answer to this question . A large mug be around twelve ounce , or 350 ml , so I will use 350 ml of room-temperature water ( 17 C ) . I will be use an electric kettle make by Black & Decker , an electric stove make by General Electric with a Circulon 2 quart saucepan , and a 900W microwave with a turntable . The electricity use of each will be measure use a Kill-a-watt meter until the water reach the boiling point , or 100 C . The Electric Kettle Electric kettle be design for their efficiency and many of them have name like Eco Kettle . In electric kettle the water be in direct contact with the heating element , there be no pot to heat and most kettle include an integrated lid . The electric kettle average around 1200 watt and take 125 second to boil the water , which translate to 0.04 kilowatt-hours ( kWh ) of electricity consume . I clear the cobweb off of the thermodynamic part of my brain and calculate that the theoretical energy require to heat 350 ml of water by 83 C in 125 second be 972 watt . Dividing this by the actual wattage use give u the overall efficiency of boil water in an electric kettle , 81 % . Image Source : Andy Butkaj The Stove The problem with a stove be twofold ; the heat need to be transfer from the element to the pot , and then the pot need to warm up before pass that energy to the water . Also , if you do n't use a lid , there be a third source of inefficiency in heat loss due to convection . The 6-inch element on my stove use 1250 watt and boil 350 ml of water take 318 second and consume 0.11 kWh , almost four time as much a the electric kettle . The theoretical energy require to heat 350 ml of water by 83 C in 318 second be 382 watt , give u an overall efficiency of only 30.5 % . Already it be quite clear that an electric kettle be far more efficient than the stove , more than twice a efficient . The next time you boil water for cooking pasta you might consider heating the water in the electric kettle first and then add it to your pot . Image Source : Ron Howard The Microwave Oven Since the water heat by the microwave will be contain by the mug we be not just heat the water , but also the mug to some degree . This will add to the time and energy require to bring the water to a boil but will also help to keep the water hotter longer when compare to boiling water pour into a room-temperature mug . Despite be a 900 watt microwave oven , the actual energy use be 1350 watt . The 900 watt most likely refers to the output of the microwave emitter itself , indicate a 67 % efficiency just to generate the microwave . Boiling the same amount of water take 191 second and use 0.07 kWh . Using the same calculation a before I determine that the actual efficiency of boil water in the microwave oven be 47 % , well than the stove , but still not a good a the electric kettle . Image Source : Alan D The Conclusion The clear winner be the electric kettle , at 81 % efficient , follow by the microwave , at 47 % efficient , with the stove be the Hummer H2 of the bunch at 30.5 % efficient . Assuming that you currently use the stove to boil water , switch to an electric kettle for your morning tea will reduce your daily electricity use from 0.11 kWh to 0.04 kWh . Over the course of a year this daily 0.07 kWh saving add up to 25.5 kWh . Depending on where you live , you could potentially save between $ 2.50 and $ 5.00 per year . Of course most of u boil more water than just for make tea . If you extrapolate these saving out to every time you make soup , pasta , home-brew or boil a lobster it can add up . Additional Considerations When Boiling Water Regardless of your method for boiling water you can ensure maximum efficiency by boiling only what you need . Use your mug to measure the proper amount or get yourself an Eco Kettle . If you be in an office you might think that fill the electric kettle to the top be the most efficient but think again . Unless the water be go to be use right away a great deal of the energy be go to just end up in the air , where you HVAC system have to remove it . Besides , heating small batch of water be quicker than heating one big batch anyway . Pablo Pster be a weekly columnist for TreeHugger.com , an experience greenhouse gas engineer and the Senior Environmental Program Manager at Hara Software . Send your question to Pablo ( at ) TreeHugger.com or submit the via this form and connect to his RSS fee . More Articles on Kettles and Boiling Water : Brewing Change : The Guardian Keeps Its Kettle In Check Get An Electric Kettle , Do n't Overfill It A Google Or A Cup Of Tea : Which Warms The Globe The Most ? How To Boil Water ( Really , Some Folks Need Telling ) Related on TreeHugger.com : Dudes , you 're drive too much : U.S. men drive 63 % more than woman , on average Good news for fracking : groundwater contamination mechanism find Infographic show the health benefit of tea and tisane Tags : Appliances | Drinking Water | Energy | Energy Efficiency | Tea facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW Farm in a box produce an acre 's worth of crop in a shipping container Without Bound : Doc share fascinate story of mobile living nomad ( Video ) 24 profoundly beautiful word that describe nature and landscape DIY Beekeeping : Download and print a smart beehive kit A good shower : Save water , energy , and money with a thermostatic shut-off valve The 'No Shampoo Experiment , ' six month late Summer home build with salvaged material be a `` treehouse for adult '' So you use oil ? No , that do n't make you a hypocrite The Rise of Disc Golf : A Greener Alternative to 'Ball Golf' LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . 