What be a Smart Meter ? - Stop OC Smart Meters google-site-verification=wKUCdb2vUG52kkOWQB1wJ2X8FS2spmZScBWWvph7SdY Home About Smart Meter Facts What be a Smart Meter ? > Zigbee Platform Smart Meter Dangers > Public Health Hazard > What be Electromagnetic Radiation ( EMR ) ? Is Microwave Radiation Harmful ? Thousands of Research Studies U.S. Military Research People Getting Sick Privacy Concerns Safety - Fires and Death Hacking and Cybersecurity > Home Control Takeover Former CIA Director `` ... it 's a really , REALLY , stupid grid . '' Price Increases More Links and Information Choose an Analog Meter Opt Out > Unfair , Over-Priced , and Penalizing Replace Your Own Meter Refuse a Smart Meter Protect Your Analog Meter Action File a CPUC Complaint Contact Your Public Officials Lawsuits Events Take Back Your Power Screenings Smart Meter Presentations CPUC Hearings Protests and Action Festivals and Fairs Public Forums Flyers and Brochures EMR Protection Store RF Meters Compared Blog Donate Contact Us Comments and Feedback Press Stop OC Smart Meters Find u : What be a Smart Meter ? What be the Smart Grid ? How the Smart Grid Works Siting and Easement Rights Violated Independent Evaluation Th e Dark Side of Smart Meters What be a Smart Meter ? Elster REX2 Smart Meter Itron 's OpenWay Centron Smart Meter , assemble in S. Carolina , contain Accent 's AMIgrid2 chip ( manufacture in China ) . The Electric Company Currently , SCE be in the process of remove all fully functional exist electromechanical analog meter ( with 30 year life span ) to computerized wireless Smart Meters . Our current analog meter operate without electricity continuously measure the usage in our home . The usage be display on the meter , read by an SCE employee and bill by the number of watt use . Replacing the traditional meter be the new `` Smart Meter '' that have a 15 to 20 year life span and , contrary to analog meter , require electricity to function . SCE employee will no longer come to your home to read the meter a all electric usage will be collect and transmit wirelessly back to SCE through pulse Radio Frequency ( RF ) on a continuous 24/7 basis . Note : SCE literature claim that the Smart Meters pulse frequency be 45 second per day . However , because these meter need to continuously communicate with each other , call chatter , the pulse radiation be virtually constant and at the same RF level a the data transmission radiation level . Itron OpenWay CENTRON Smart Meter ( use by SCE ) , `` communicate to utility system allow them to leverage application such a time-of-use and peak pricing data , home network and demand response . '' Some of the feature : ZigBee 2.4 GHz radio transceiver ( WiFi ) , 900 MHz radio ( cellular ) microprocessor for application and communication processing and high speed hardware trace probe . Using ZigBee firmware , the Smart Meter collect detail of energy consumption every 15 minute and transmits the data via wireless ( RF ) Cell Relay signal back to the SCE Collection Engine . The Gas Company OpenWay Gas Module ( Southern California Gas ) us 2.4GHz ZigBee wireless network for combination gas and electric utility . Installations be plan to begin in late 2012 through 2017 and cost customer approximately $ 2.00 per month ( just for the new meter ) . Below be it 's feature : Remote disconnect , reconnect and service-limiting switch Demand response Critical peak pricing and time-of-use rate update Remote device configuration for endpoint program update Remote firmware update use ZigBee and gas firmare Can be read by OpenWay CENTRON meter without need for additional infrastructure Continually store and update the last 40 day of hourly interval data Operates in bubble-up mode and do not require an FCC license The Water Company Local water department will also be replace the current meter with RF control meter that will communicate wirelessly with the Smart Meter attach to your home . Some resident have raise concern about the health effect from the frequency . The first Zigbee radio transmitter create a home WiFi ( 2.45 GHz ) to communicate with appliance and other 'Smart ' device . The second Zigbee radio transmitter communicate via cellular service ( 900 MHz ) back to the utility . What be the Smart Grid ? The Smart Grid be a wireless communication infrastructure which , currently , have two function : control of service and bill . Because it collect real-time electricity , gas and water usage detail , rate can vary during the day ( aka Time of Use or TOU rate ) . The utility monitor and control when and where their service be provide . The benign meter of the past that merely collect monthly kilowatt use be go . Touted a way for customer to `` save money '' , Southern California Edison plan on spending $ 5 BILLION for the Smart Grid . Smart Grid do NOT : Fix the aging power grid . Repair power plant or add capacity . Improve the way we transmit electricity over power line . Deliver any benefit to the customer . Smart Grid be taxpayer-paid revenue system that will : Increase price of electricity to ratepayer . Ration service with punitive pricing structure and remote off switch . Create the Internet of Things infrastructure for the benefit of third party vendor such a Cisco , Intel , Microsoft , Google , IBM , etc . Collect Big Data for government , NSA , police , insurance company , etc . Blanket neighborhood with a Class 2B Possible Carcinogen on the level with lead , DDT and chloroform . Create million of hackable wireless data point with insufficient cyber security . Catch fire a the unit be not UL approve . Could the Smart Grid create a new currency use Carbon Credits to restrict utility service under California 's Cap and Trade requirement ? Will energy become the new money to be restrict and trade a be do with Smart Coin Meters ? Electric Power Research Institute ( EPRI ) Internet of Things ( IOT ) - Smart Grid Mesh Network WiFi network work by connecting antenna-controlled device within a network and allow such device to communicate among each other . The Smart Grid Mesh Network take the WiFi and cellular network concept and expand it exponentially use million of Smart Meter endpoint , pole-mounted router , relay , range extenders to create large-scale WiFi network over a broad area like a city . Note : For every 500 or so home , a toxic Collector Smart Meter be instal which work to communicate data back to pole-mounted router . You do NOT want one of these force on your home . Towns such a Santa Clara , California have ( blanket the area with microwave radiation and ) create Smart Meter Mesh Network for their entire city through the utility-based Smart Meters . `` We be the first utility in the nation to offer free Wi-Fi a part of the smart meter rollout , '' say Larry Owens , a manager with Silicon Valley Power , Santa Clara 's municipal power company . This WiFi can not be shut off . When there be WiFi everywhere , item that be chip can be monitor and track . Smart Meters contain Zigbee radio chip which communicate with Zigbee-chipped appliance such a refrigerator , washer , dryer , pool equipment , toaster oven , hair dryer , hot water heater , security system , and light . Itron 's Smart Grid Mesh Network Components The Internet of Things How the Smart Grid Works Itron 's Smart Grid It be the plan of power and energy authority worldwide to replace current disk-style ( analog ) electric , gas and water meter with digital `` Smart Meters . `` These be wireless device ( computer ) that use radiofrequency ( RF ) wave to monitor use and transmit information about each household 's consumption . They be be enthusiastically promote by government and industry a a `` green initiative , '' supposedly enable utility company to efficiently monitor consumption during peak and `` down '' time , and encourage wise use of energy and resources.The vision be that these `` Smart Meters '' will operate within a wider range `` Smart Grid . '' The information-carrying radio wave , transmit ( continuously ) 24/7 , will effectively blanket home and neighborhood with ( WIFI ) RF radiation that could adversely affect not just humans , but all live system . In particular , these meter have the potential to affect not only electro-hypersensitive person , but child and pregnant woman , person with medical condition such a heart arrhythmia , those with compromised immune system , and others who rely on medical and/or metal implant or equipment . In addition to health concern , Smart Meters bring with them question about ( privacy , security , pricing ) fire and security hazard . The cost of instal the new digital wireless meter be substantial , their accuracy be debatable , and there be much controversy a to whether or not the reading serve to decrease power use , or simply to increase power cost to consumer . Serious disagreement continue between the electric utility company and thousand of private homeowner who refuse the force installation of Wireless Smart Meters on their home without consent . Customers want the Utilities to listen to their valid concern before press ahead with this program . -- -From Citizens for Safe Technology.org SCE receive $ 79,000,000 to build a Smart Grid in the City of Irvine to literally provide a living laboratory with Smart Grid technology . Siting and Easement Rights Violated SCE be in violation of their utility easement . The company be not allow to install a device which interferes with the homeowner 's health , privacy and safety . SCE do not have an easement to install wireless telecommunication facility and violate personal property sit right on the premise of a homeowner without their express permission and that of the local governing official . An easement be a clause in your contract with your utility which allow them access to their equipment , for meter-reading and maintenance . Check with your house deed to see if that be part of the contract . Your utility may also have the information about the particular of their easement . But many people have call into question whether installation of the smart meterwhich includes telecommunication equipment and mark an unprecedented change in metering , blanket your home in a class 2B carcinogenactually qualify a maintenance ! -- - Stop Smart Meters ! Independent Evaluation According to a July 2010 Evaluation of Residential Smart Meter Policies ( pdf ) , the Smart Meter have approximately 30 separate functionality . Most of these functionality will primarily benefit the utility unless expressly employ toward end-consumer programme with the support of regulation and supportive market structure . '' The CPUC and the utility have develop an integrated package of smart meter plus demand response measure of direct load control and time differentiate pricing tariff . All of the utility in California have now receive permission to rollout smart meter a part of a large efficiency plan the main demand response program in use be critical peak pricing , critical peak rebate , time of use and automate AC thermostat . Customer feedback and education will also be use but sometimes a a support to the pricing program only . On top of this , each utility have ask for extra fund to provide service which go beyond the minimal requirement of the smart meter regulation . There be good evidence that private industry a well a the utility now have a substantial financial stake in the success of these programme create green job and business opportunity . The positive cost/benefit for the utility be directly relate to how successful they be with their demand response program ( due to the regulatory framework in place ) . The overall success of the meter rollout will now be dependent on the ability of the utility and private company involve to educate and interest consumer . Rollout be due to be complete in 2012 for most utility and the full impact of the programme may take a couple of year after this to be fully realize . The Dark Side of Smart Meters what be a smart meter ? - stop oc smart meter google-site-verification=wkucdb2vug52kkowqb1wj2x8fs2spmzscbwwvph7sdy home about smart meter fact what be a smart meter ? > zigbee platform smart meter danger > public health hazard > what be electromagnetic radiation ( emr ) ? be microwave radiation harmful ? thousand of research study u.s. military research people get sick privacy concern safety - fire and death hack and cybersecurity > home control takeover former cia director `` ... it 's a really , really , stupid grid . '' price increase more link and information choose an analog meter opt out > unfair , over-priced , and penalizing replace your own meter refuse a smart meter protect your analog meter action file a cpuc complaint contact your public official lawsuit event take back your power screening smart meter presentation cpuc hearing protest and action festival and fair public forum flyer and brochure emr protection store rf meter compare blog donate contact u comment and feedback press stop oc smart meter find u : what be a smart meter ? what be the smart grid ? how the smart grid work sit and easement right violated independent evaluation th e dark side of smart meter what be a smart meter ? elster rex2 smart meter itron 's openway centron smart meter , assemble in s. carolina , contain accent 's amigrid2 chip ( manufacture in china ) . the electric company currently , sce be in the process of remove all fully functional exist electromechanical analog meter ( with 30 year life span ) to computerized wireless smart meter . our current analog meter operate without electricity continuously measure the usage in our home . the usage be display on the meter , read by an sce employee and bill by the number of watt use . replace the traditional meter be the new `` smart meter '' that have a 15 to 20 year life span and , contrary to analog meter , require electricity to function . sce employee will no longer come to your home to read the meter a all electric usage will be collect and transmit wirelessly back to sce through pulse radio frequency ( rf ) on a continuous 24/7 basis . note : sce literature claim that the smart meter pulse frequency be 45 second per day . however , because these meter need to continuously communicate with each other , call chatter , the pulse radiation be virtually constant and at the same rf level a the data transmission radiation level . itron openway centron smart meter ( use by sce ) , `` communicate to utility system allow them to leverage application such a time-of-use and peak pricing data , home network and demand response . '' some of the feature : zigbee 2.4 ghz radio transceiver ( wifi ) , 900 mhz radio ( cellular ) microprocessor for application and communication processing and high speed hardware trace probe . use zigbee firmware , the smart meter collect detail of energy consumption every 15 minute and transmits the data via wireless ( rf ) cell relay signal back to the sce collection engine . the gas company openway gas module ( southern california gas ) us 2.4ghz zigbee wireless network for combination gas and electric utility . installation be plan to begin in late 2012 through 2017 and cost customer approximately $ 2.00 per month ( just for the new meter ) . below be it 's feature : remote disconnect , reconnect and service-limiting switch demand response critical peak pricing and time-of-use rate update remote device configuration for endpoint program update remote firmware update use zigbee and gas firmare can be read by openway centron meter without need for additional infrastructure continually store and update the last 40 day of hourly interval data operates in bubble-up mode and do not require an fcc license the water company local water department will also be replace the current meter with rf control meter that will communicate wirelessly with the smart meter attach to your home . some resident have raise concern about the health effect from the frequency . the first zigbee radio transmitter create a home wifi ( 2.45 ghz ) to communicate with appliance and other 'smart ' device . the second zigbee radio transmitter communicate via cellular service ( 900 mhz ) back to the utility . what be the smart grid ? the smart grid be a wireless communication infrastructure which , currently , have two function : control of service and bill . because it collect real-time electricity , gas and water usage detail , rate can vary during the day ( aka time of use or tou rate ) . the utility monitor and control when and where their service be provide . the benign meter of the past that merely collect monthly kilowatt use be go . touted a way for customer to `` save money '' , southern california edison plan on spending $ 5 billion for the smart grid . smart grid do not : fix the aging power grid . repair power plant or add capacity . improve the way we transmit electricity over power line . deliver any benefit to the customer . smart grid be taxpayer-paid revenue system that will : increase price of electricity to ratepayer . ration service with punitive pricing structure and remote off switch . create the internet of thing infrastructure for the benefit of third party vendor such a cisco , intel , microsoft , google , ibm , etc . collect big data for government , nsa , police , insurance company , etc . blanket neighborhood with a class 2b possible carcinogen on the level with lead , ddt and chloroform . create million of hackable wireless data point with insufficient cyber security . catch fire a the unit be not ul approve . could the smart grid create a new currency use carbon credit to restrict utility service under california 's cap and trade requirement ? will energy become the new money to be restrict and trade a be do with smart coin meter ? electric power research institute ( epri ) internet of thing ( iot ) - smart grid mesh network wifi network work by connecting antenna-controlled device within a network and allow such device to communicate among each other . the smart grid mesh network take the wifi and cellular network concept and expand it exponentially use million of smart meter endpoint , pole-mounted router , relay , range extenders to create large-scale wifi network over a broad area like a city . note : for every 500 or so home , a toxic collector smart meter be instal which work to communicate data back to pole-mounted router . you do not want one of these force on your home . town such a santa clara , california have ( blanket the area with microwave radiation and ) create smart meter mesh network for their entire city through the utility-based smart meter . `` we be the first utility in the nation to offer free wi-fi a part of the smart meter rollout , '' say larry owen , a manager with silicon valley power , santa clara 's municipal power company . this wifi can not be shut off . when there be wifi everywhere , item that be chip can be monitor and track . smart meter contain zigbee radio chip which communicate with zigbee-chipped appliance such a refrigerator , washer , dryer , pool equipment , toaster oven , hair dryer , hot water heater , security system , and light . itron 's smart grid mesh network component the internet of thing how the smart grid work itron 's smart grid it be the plan of power and energy authority worldwide to replace current disk-style ( analog ) electric , gas and water meter with digital `` smart meter . `` these be wireless device ( computer ) that use radiofrequency ( rf ) wave to monitor use and transmit information about each household 's consumption . they be be enthusiastically promote by government and industry a a `` green initiative , '' supposedly enable utility company to efficiently monitor consumption during peak and `` down '' time , and encourage wise use of energy and resources.the vision be that these `` smart meter '' will operate within a wider range `` smart grid . '' the information-carrying radio wave , transmit ( continuously ) 24/7 , will effectively blanket home and neighborhood with ( wifi ) rf radiation that could adversely affect not just humans , but all live system . in particular , these meter have the potential to affect not only electro-hypersensitive person , but child and pregnant woman , person with medical condition such a heart arrhythmia , those with compromised immune system , and others who rely on medical and/or metal implant or equipment . in addition to health concern , smart meter bring with them question about ( privacy , security , pricing ) fire and security hazard . the cost of instal the new digital wireless meter be substantial , their accuracy be debatable , and there be much controversy a to whether or not the reading serve to decrease power use , or simply to increase power cost to consumer . serious disagreement continue between the electric utility company and thousand of private homeowner who refuse the force installation of wireless smart meter on their home without consent . customer want the utility to listen to their valid concern before press ahead with this program . -- -from citizen for safe technology.org sce receive $ 79,000,000 to build a smart grid in the city of irvine to literally provide a living laboratory with smart grid technology . sit and easement right violated sce be in violation of their utility easement . the company be not allow to install a device which interferes with the homeowner 's health , privacy and safety . sce do not have an easement to install wireless telecommunication facility and violate personal property sit right on the premise of a homeowner without their express permission and that of the local governing official . an easement be a clause in your contract with your utility which allow them access to their equipment , for meter-reading and maintenance . check with your house deed to see if that be part of the contract . your utility may also have the information about the particular of their easement . but many people have call into question whether installation of the smart meterwhich includes telecommunication equipment and mark an unprecedented change in metering , blanket your home in a class 2b carcinogenactually qualify a maintenance ! -- - stop smart meter ! independent evaluation accord to a july 2010 evaluation of residential smart meter policy ( pdf ) , the smart meter have approximately 30 separate functionality . most of these functionality will primarily benefit the utility unless expressly employ toward end-consumer programme with the support of regulation and supportive market structure . '' the cpuc and the utility have develop an integrated package of smart meter plus demand response measure of direct load control and time differentiate pricing tariff . all of the utility in california have now receive permission to rollout smart meter a part of a large efficiency plan the main demand response program in use be critical peak pricing , critical peak rebate , time of use and automate ac thermostat . customer feedback and education will also be use but sometimes a a support to the pricing program only . on top of this , each utility have ask for extra fund to provide service which go beyond the minimal requirement of the smart meter regulation . there be good evidence that private industry a well a the utility now have a substantial financial stake in the success of these programme create green job and business opportunity . the positive cost/benefit for the utility be directly relate to how successful they be with their demand response program ( due to the regulatory framework in place ) . the overall success of the meter rollout will now be dependent on the ability of the utility and private company involve to educate and interest consumer . rollout be due to be complete in 2012 for most utility and the full impact of the programme may take a couple of year after this to be fully realize . the dark side of smart meter 