Jay Hancock 's blog : Did your estimate BGE bill seem too high ? - Business news : Stock market , bank and economic observation with columnist Jay Hancock - baltimoresun.com JOBS CARS REAL ESTATE CLASSIFIED ADVERTISE HOME DELIVERY SUN STORE The Baltimore Sun > Business > Jay Hancock 's blog Sign up for FREE business news text alert : More Info Is Greece Lehman Bros. or Argentina ? | Main | Food truck be an anthropological phenomenon September 14 , 2011 Did your estimate BGE bill seem too high ? Victoria Worden of Bel Air call to say she think her August BGE bill be too high . Late last month BGE meter reader be help restore power , with the result that BGE could n't read about 170,000 meter -- include Worden 's . Instead BGE sent out estimate bill . In 2010 Worden 's August bill be in the $ 50 range , she say . This year , after BGE estimate it , the August bill be way high -- $ 75.50 , she say . And the average temperature for this August be a degree cooler than last year , accord to BGE . `` $ 75 be way out of line , '' Worden say . She 's not even sure she run the AC last month , and she expect the bill to be much low . Certainly low than the bill from this July , which be really really hot . Especially since , after Hurricane Irene , she say she do n't have any electricity during part of August for almost 40 hour ! But her bill be about the same for both July and August . UPDATE , 11 a.m. : BGE put out a press release on this this morning , say : `` Baltimore Gas and Electric Company ( BGE ) today announce that a a result of Hurricane Irene , meter reader be assign to storm duty and do not read any gas or electric meter from Aug. 30 Sept. 1 . On August 29 and Sept. 2 , some , but not all meter be read . '' BGE be say 150,000 household be `` affect , '' but the total number of home with unread meter be 170,000 , include those on budget billing . BGE 's full press release be below the fold . If your bill seem too high for August and it 's a hassle , do what Worden do and call BGE at 410-685-0123 . She say they agree to bill her zero for August and then put everything on the September bill once they read the meter . ( If your estimate bill prof to be too high , BGE be suppose to credit the overbilled amount the next time the meter be read . ) I have a similar experience . My July 2011 bill be $ 277 , and I figure August would be way low . But it be n't . BGE estimate that I owe $ 252 for last month . My average daily kilowatt use in August , accord to BGE 's estimate , be 25 percent more than it be in August 2010 -- even though , a mention , this year 's August be cool than last year 's . ( I do n't lose power after the hurricane , however . ) I ask BGE for a response to all customer who may believe they be overbilled . ( BGE do n't give me any special treatment , and I do n't ask them to change my bill . ) BGE have software that estimate bill when meter reader ca n't get out , say Jeannette Mills , the utility 's senior vice president for customer relation . The estimate be base on actual , meter usage of similar customer , BGE say . Sometimes it overestimate . Sometimes it underestimate , Mills say . But it do n't make allowance for when your power go out . So there be probably other folk out there like Worden , with overestimated bill . Mills deny that this give a big boost to BGE 's cash flow . `` There be no windfall , '' she say . `` There be no significant positive cash flow increase . '' BGE spokesman Rob Gould say that eliminate estimate bill will be one of the benefit of smart meter , due to be instal start next year . They 'll beam your kilowatt use straight to headquarters every day . If you 're on budget billing , where BGE smooth out seasonal variation to make your invoice more or less the same every month , your bill probably be n't significantly alter by an unread meter last month , BGE say . Read BGE 's full press release below : Baltimore Gas and Electric Company Customers May Receive Estimated Bills Due to Hurricane Irene Meter reader assign to storm duty for several day during and follow hurricane Approximately 150,000 customer will receive estimate bill due to hurricane BALTIMORE , Sept. 14 , 2011 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company ( BGE ) today announce that a a result of Hurricane Irene , meter reader be assign to storm duty and do not read any gas or electric meter from Aug. 30 Sept. 1 . On August 29 and Sept. 2 , some , but not all meter be read . Customers whose meter be not read will receive estimate bill . When an actual reading be take prior to the mailing of next month bill , usage will self-correct to ensure customer be only bill for the energy they actually used during those month . Hurricane Irene be one of the big storm in BGEs 200-year history and it force u to suspend normal business operation for several day in order to focus our attention on restoring electric service to our customer a safely and a quickly a possible , say Jeannette M. Mills , senior vice president and chief customer officer for BGE . During large-scale storm restoration event such a Hurricane Irene , meter reader like the majority of BGEs 3,000 employee have storm assignment that be different from their normal day-to-day job . BGEs meter reader be dispatch to address public safety concern during and in the hour and immediate day follow Hurricane Irene . Many of them respond to report of down wire and sit in vehicle near downed wire to ensure the safety of others until a crew could respond and de-energize the wire or restore service . In this capacity , meter reader play a crucial role in our effort to keep our customer and employee safe during this massive restoration effort . To inform the approximately 150,000 customer affect by the estimate meter reading cause by Hurricane Irene , BGE employ the use of it automate telephone dialing system and attempt to contact all of these customer . Based on report generate follow these call , BGE believe it successfully reach approximately 86 percent of these customer . To far assist customer with monthly bill , BGE offer enrollment into it Budget Billing program which spread payment out over a 12 month period so customer arent a affect by seasonal increase in usage . Additionally , customer be encourage to contact BGE early if they be have trouble pay their bill to discuss alternative payment option . BGE , www.bge.com , headquarter in Baltimore , be Marylands large gas and electric utility , deliver power to more than 1.2 million electric customer and more than 640,000 natural gas customer in Central Maryland . The company approximately 3,000 employee be commit to the safe and reliable delivery of gas and electricity , a well a enhance energy management , conservation , environmental stewardship and community assistance . BGE be a subsidiary of Constellation Energy , www.constellation.com , a FORTUNE 500 company also headquarter in Baltimore , with subsidiary that generate , sell and provide other energy-related service to customer throughout North America . # # # Posted by Jay Hancock at 6:00 AM | Permalink | Comments ( 29 ) Categories : BGE/electricity Comments Many homeowner who be without electricity for a week have high bill this month than in July or August of last year . If this BGE/Constellation 's way of make up for the cost of storm repair ? They always have an angle . What be the definition of public utility ? Posted by : Baltihon | September 14 , 2011 7:44 AM I suggest we pay them what we estimate their service to be worth . My power go out shortly after midnight on Thursday . They begin fix it around 6:00 that even . Well after the 11:00 AM estimate to have it restore . Posted by : DOOM161 | September 14 , 2011 7:45 AM Maybe BGE can take the overcharge and invest them in upgrading their crumbling infrastructure ... not likely . Perhaps the PSC should fine BGE for each outage with part of it go to the people to help those chronically out purchase a generator . Posted by : dirth vader | September 14 , 2011 7:45 AM From what I have read , the SMART METERS will CHARGE YOU MORE MONEY for the kilowatt you use during Peak Hours . How it work ... when you get your whopping bill , you reduce the amount of electricity you use during peak hour . This unfairly impact vulnerable population . I know my eighty year old parent and some citizen with health and money concern will turn of their electricity/AC/Heat to save money . Stop the Smart Meters ! Posted by : Baltihon | September 14 , 2011 7:51 AM Yea , my bill be $ 200 for July . August when it be much cool and we do n't have power our bill be $ 250 . A $ 50 dollar increase ? They estimate our usage at 48 Kwh per day even though our usage in June/July be 29 and 36 respectively . They good reimburse u at the charged rate for the electricity . Posted by : Ryan K | September 14 , 2011 7:56 AM This be only the tip of the iceberg . My parent typical monthly bill during the winter be usually at maximum $ 150 per month . However , when they could n't get a reading from the second meter which they instal . They start their so call estimate billing . For roughly 3.5 - 4 month . They be send a bill for $ 2000 . Even when I try to reason with them about the average per month usage of $ 150 during the winter month for the past year . They refuse to listen to logic . They say that their people could n't read the meter so estimate bill be use . It take close to a dozen phonecalls , 3 week , and have people come out in order to straighten out the issue . The second meter be n't even on and turn out it never even have electricty pas through it . We do n't even get an apology . The government need to investigate this and see how rampant their billing abuse be . Posted by : Tae Chung | September 14 , 2011 8:14 AM My August estimate bill be also very similar to my July bill and high than last year . The estimate should be your last year usage plus or minus a percentage base on the average temperture difference . PSC should audit BGE 's cash flow for August . Of course with customer not have power they should have much less cash than LY . Posted by : Dennis from Catonsville | September 14 , 2011 8:29 AM BGE ALWAYS over charge for estimate bill . They may make up the difference the follow month , but for that one month they have accumulate a huge amount of money in overcharge that they either invest or make interest on . Then they refund back only the principle . A quick way to make customer basically give BGE a free interest free loan where they get to keep the interest . Pretty slick ! Posted by : afmcalax | September 14 , 2011 8:39 AM Is an extra $ 25 really go to break Ms. Worden 's bank ? If it truly be a hardship , she should think of it a a force saving plan . It 's not like BGE be just take the money . Her bill next month will be much small and easy to pay . Is it the interest she 's worry about ? I 'll be generous and use 1 % APR ( find only at internet bank these day ) compound monthly for one month . That come to about 2 cent . There be big problem in the world , move along people . Posted by : Jimbo | September 14 , 2011 9:03 AM $ 75 ? My average monthly bill be around $ 300 . Does this woman live in a tiny house ? Or am I get overcharged ? Posted by : Cats McGee | September 14 , 2011 9:32 AM Jimbo ... youre an idiot . Posted by : logic | September 14 , 2011 10:07 AM @ Cats McGee - I be think the same thing ! I 'd be the happy camper in town if I receive a bill that be $ 75 instead of the $ 350 I be charge for August . The only thing worse than summer BGE bill be the $ 500+ bill I get in the winter . Posted by : Jan | September 14 , 2011 10:19 AM I think you could read your own meter and call it in ? Posted by : Phillip | September 14 , 2011 10:35 AM My bill be $ 40 less than last summer for August . I admit I 've be more careful about my power usage , but I never turn my a/c off for the whole month , unlike June and July when I be away or the temp let me let in fresh air . BGE a all private utility exist to make a profit . They will cut corner , use deceptive but not illegal practice , whatever it take to give their stockholder and executive more in their pocket . Whatever genius decide that power generation should be private not government be wrong , because the mantra for private industry be n't serve the public , but make profit . Posted by : cate58 | September 14 , 2011 11:54 AM WOW ! What a bunch of whiner ! First , let me state that I be not an employee of BGE nor be anyone in my family . We be so fortunate to live in an area where we have reliable and dependable and relatively inexpensive utility . I wonder how many of the people complain here pay a much or more for cable tv and internet service a they do for the utility that allow them to utilize the cable and internet . Does anyone really think that BGE intentionally drag their foot when it come to restoring power after Irene move through the area because there be also a lot of whining about that . BGE make nothing off of their electric consumer if the consumer be n't use any electricity so they be redeploy meter reader to help expedite the reconnection of customer to their electricty . Stop complaining and be grateful that we have access to reliable utility unlike much of the world that live in complete darkness when the sun go down because they have nothing except maybe some candle or lantern to light the night , if they 're lucky . Posted by : Evesham | September 14 , 2011 12:06 PM You people that be get $ 300- $ 500 bill need to stop be such energy hog . You good be live in a 5,000 sqft . house to be get a bill that insanely high . Posted by : Steve | September 14 , 2011 12:37 PM Most folk bill cycle mean they have yet to see a bill that include the hurricane time period . But upon close inspection I see that our electricity DELIVERY rate in the last 6 month be up an average of 25 % over last year . In july it be 32 % high . The average household be on track to pay $ 80 more this year than last to have BGE DELIVER their electricity . A 24 % bump for worse service ... ..hmm ... me think the PSC be not do it job . Posted by : laura | September 14 , 2011 1:18 PM I dare them to try to do this to me . I still do n't have power from Hurricane Irene because I have to get electrical work done . Between the red tape I have to cut through between them and the city of Baltimore it have become a pain just to get my power back on . Posted by : Calvin | September 14 , 2011 2:23 PM Evesham be a Constellation Stock holder . And Evesham , people be not complain that BGE delay repair - but that their bill should be less ( or at least not high ) due to the lack of electricity for 1 week . Jimbo - when you be on a fix income - $ 25 more per month be a lot . I be talk to a woman last week . Her house straddle PA/MD . The neighbor in PA have their power within 24 hour with Pepco . The MD folk wait a week for BGE repair . Posted by : Baltihon | September 14 , 2011 4:57 PM BEGINNING THIS SPRING OF 2012 , BG & E PLANS TO INSTALL SMART METERS THAT WILL TRANSMIT 24/7 , INTERMITTENT PULSED RADIATION INTO EVERY HOME , SCHOOL , OFFICE AND HOSPITAL . * SMART METER RADIATION IS A CATEGORY 2B CARCINOGEN ACCORDING TO THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION . * SMART METER NETWORKS BLANKET ENTIRE NEIGHBORHOODS WITH PULSED MICROWAVE RADIATION AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WITH SMART METERS REPORT VARIOUS SYMPTOMS INCLUDING HEADACHES , HEART PALPITATIONS , NAUSEA , DIZZINESS , RINGING IN EARS , AND DIFFICULTY BREATHING . * WE ARE AT RISK FOR CANCER , NEUROLOGICAL DISEASE , REPRODUCTIVE AND DEVELOPMENTAL IMPAIRMENTS . * SMART METERS HAVE BEEN LINKED TO STRUCTURAL FIRES . * IN PLACES WITH SMART METERS IT HAS BEEN PROVEN THAT CONSUMERS SAVE NO MONEY . * SMART METERS VIOLATE PRIVACY BY TRACKING DETAILS OF ENERGY USAGE SUCH AS WHICH APPLIANCES ARE IN USE AND WHEN , WHETHER A HOME IS VACANT , ETC . * COMPANIES ARE ALREADY HARVESTING AND MARKETING THIS TYPE OF DATA . WHAT TO DO FOR NOW IF YOU DO N'T WANT A SMART METER ON YOUR HOME : 1 . NOTIFY BOTH BG & E AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION THAT YOU DO NOT WANT A SMART METER AFFIXED TO YOUR HOME . SAMPLE LETTERS CAN BE DOWNLOADED FROM WWW.MarylandResidentsAgainstSmartMeters.org 2 . JOIN MARYLAND RESIDENTS AGAINST SMART METERS TO WORK FOR A MORATORIUM OR OPT-OUT AS PEOPLE ARE DOING IN OTHER STATES . Contact : info @ MarylandResidentsAgainstSmartMeters.org For further information contact World Health Organization , www.who.int and the Karolinska Institute , www.ki.se . Posted by : Dr. David Eisenberg | September 14 , 2011 11:12 PM SMART METER PRIVACY VIOLATIONS . 1 . Must-See 4-minute youtube video on Smart meter : http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? feature=player_embedded & v=8JNFr_j6kdI SMART METER HEALTH PROBLEMS AND CANCER . 2 . The WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION on May 31 2011 place the Non-ionizing radiation come from Wireless smart meter ( and some other wireless device ) on the Class 2-B Carcinogen List . http : //www.iarc.fr/en/media-centre/pr/2011/pdfs/pr208_E.pdf 3 . The NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH month ago ( Feb 2011 ) found biological change in the brain after only minutes of exposure to non-ionizing radiation . http : //jama.ama-assn.org/content/305/8/808.abstract 4 . LABORATORY SCIENTISTS have observe ( 1 ) Human Cell Damage ( 2 ) DNA Chain Breaks ( 3 ) Breaches in the Blood-Brain Barrier from level of non-ionizing radiation low than emit by WIRELESS Smart meter . http : //electromagnetichealth.org/electromagnetic-health-blog/cc-video/ 5 . INSURANCE COMPANIES Hired Independent Laboratory Scientists and these scientist also observe Cell Damage and DNA Chain Breaks and now the Insurance Companies will NOT Insure Liability damage from Wireless Smart meter and other wireless device . TV Video ( 3 minute ) http : //eon3emfblog.net/ ? p=382 So shouldnt installation of Wireless smart meter on people 's home Stop ? Cell Phone use and other device be Voluntary and can be shut off at the user discretion , but Smart meter be emit radiation 24/7 and can not be shut off . 6 . WIRELESS SMART METERS 100 TIMES MORE RADIATION THAN CELL PHONES . Video Interview : Nuclear Scientist , Daniel Hirsch , ( 5 minute ) http : //stopsmartmeters.org/2011/04/20/daniel-hirsch-on-ccsts-fuzzy-math/ 7 . WIRELESS SMART METERS CANCER , NERVOUS SYSTEM DAMAGE , ADVERSE REPRODUCTION AFFECTS . Video Interview : Dr. Carpenter , New York Public Health Department , Dean of Public Health , ( 2 minute ) http : //emfsafetynetwork.org/ ? p=3946 8 . THE KAROLINSKA INSTITUTE IN STOCKHOLM ( the University that give the Nobel Prizes ) ISSUES GLOBAL HEALTH WARNING AGAINST WIRELESS SMART METERS . 2-page Press Release http : //www.scribd.com/doc/48148346/Karolinska-Institute-Press-Release 9 . RADIATION MEASURED FROM SMART METER MOUNTED ON A HOME ( once active in the utility system ) SHOWS RADIATION TRANSMISSION PULSES APPROXIMATELY ONCE EVERY FOUR SECONDS 24 HOURS PER DAY traveling through the body and brain of the inhabitant of that home . Youtube Video ( 6 minute , 1st minute be sufficient ) http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=uRejDxBE6OE NOTE : many of the test on non-ionizing radiation ( the type of radiation emit by smart meter ) have be do use instrument other than smart meter because smart meter have only be in people home for a very short time . But a a Wireless smart meter emits 100 time more radiation than a cell phone , it be not difficult to project . If a machine gun ( smart meter ) fire 100 bullet in the same time that a pistol ( cell phone ) fire one bullet , it be not difficult to project the harm that the machine gun can inflict , even if the test be do with the pistol . CUSTOMER UTILITY BILLS AFTER SMART METERS INSTALLED . 10 . Skyrocketing Utility Bills after installation TV News Video ( 3 minute ) http : //www.bakersfieldnow.com/news/63581287.html ? tab=video 11 . Systemic Smart Meter Billing Errors Over 200 % Uncovered in Australia TV News Video ( 7 minute ) http : //au.news.yahoo.com/today-tonight/money/article/-/10241945/power-scandal-exposed/ - video NATIONAL SECURITY RISKS DUE TO SMART METERS . 12 . CIA Director James Woolsey call Smart grid Stupid due to National Security problem cause by so-called smart meter . News Video ( 1 minute ) http : //www.energynow.com/video/2011/08/10/preview-mix-james-woolsey Posted by : RobertWilliams | September 15 , 2011 3:23 AM Jay mention 1 advantage of smart meter . Another be that during a power outage , the utility know exactly who be without power . Thursday after the storm , BGE call u to see if we have power ( we do n't ) . Once the power be back on , they call u again to see if power be restore . I have call in , several time , to report power out , I be surprise they do n't have a good way to determine if we have power or not . Posted by : Maggie | September 15 , 2011 7:30 AM The Smart Grid and all it benefit can be achieve through other , safer technology such a have be do in Italy . It be not necessary to harm health , invade privacy , and raise rate in order to have a Smart Grid . Posted by : Ruthie Kalib Eisenberg | September 15 , 2011 8:10 PM I have to question the `` world health organization '' just like I question the `` IMF '' or the `` United Nations '' . My cell phone be probably more likely to cause me harm than a smart meter . The water I drink from Baltimore city be probably lace with high amount of lead and or mercury . The air I breath be fill with toxin from the car you drive . The chicken and milk I drink be fill with hormone . So what do i do ? Complain about smart grid ? Hell , it 's probably safe than everything else I just talk about . I 'll take smart grid over Baltimore City water purposely lased with fluoride to help 'protect me ' any day , I 'll take smart grid over milk saturate with chemical that be to help 'protect ' me from illness . The more important question . Will smart grid affect radio frequency like Broad Band over Power line do a few year back make it so emergency responder and ham radio operator receive interference when communicate . That 's my real question ! Posted by : Phillip | September 19 , 2011 10:46 AM Could Robert Williams who write on Sept. 15th,2011 , put together an invaluable resource sheet on Smart Meters , please contact Maryland Residents Against Smart Meters at info @ MarylandResidentsAgainstSmartMeters.org . Smart Meter radiation need to be compare to cell tower radiation , not cell phone radiation , accord to lead expert . Each build with a Smart Meter become part of an interconnect microwave transmission system ( mesh network ) , thus blanket entire neighborhood with pulse microwave radiation . So it 's important to speak with your neighbor . You can turn off your cell phone . You ca n't turn off your Smart Meter . It operate 24/7 . According to Sage Associates , have a Smart Meter be like living within 500 foot of a major cell tower . According to UC Nuclear expert , the exposure be at least 100x the exposure from a cell phone . Posted by : David Eisenberg | September 20 , 2011 8:40 PM Thanks to energy deregulation people have the ability to choose who they want a their energy supplier and actually save money on their BGE bill every month a well a make money every month ! ! ! Energy be a life-essential service people use and need every day . You can talk to anybody who be without power during the hurricane and they can tell you how miserable they be without it . Regardless of where you live , everyone will continue to pay an energy bill every month . If you get to pay it , why not save some money ! ! ! Think about all the people you know who pay an energy bill every month . Now you have the ability to help them save some money every month and you can also make some money every month . I live in the Laurel area and my power be out for almost a week , but even in the mist of the inconvenience of have no power my husband and I both get an energy income check 2 day after the hurricane . If you want to learn how to profit from Government Deregulation and possibly the large Transfer of Wealth in American History visit http : //fcoffee.igniteinc.biz for more information . Posted by : Felicia | September 27 , 2011 12:21 PM Thanks to energy deregulation people have the ability to choose who they want a their energy supplier and actually save money on their BGE bill every month a well a make money every month ! ! ! Energy be a life-essential service people use and need every day . You can talk to anybody who be without power during the hurricane and they can tell you how miserable they be without it . Regardless of where you live , everyone will continue to pay an energy bill every month . If you get to pay it , why not save some money ! ! ! Think about all the people you know who pay an energy bill every month . Now you have the ability to help them save some money every month and you can also make some money every month . I live in the Laurel area and my power be out for almost a week , but even in the mist of the inconvenience of have no power my husband and I both get an energy income check 2 day after the hurricane . If you want to learn how to profit from Government Deregulation and possibly the large Transfer of Wealth in American History visit http : //fcoffee.igniteinc.biz for more information Posted by : Felicia | September 27 , 2011 12:34 PM My bill be surprisingly low for August . I guess that be because of Peak Rewards and budget billing . Posted by : Christina | September 28 , 2011 10:44 PM I be shock to see that BGE guestimated 100 % over the normal usage for August billing - this be certainly a dirty scheme they decide to run to cover repair cost . How do I tell if I get credit on my Sept bill for overcharging ? About smart meter ... transmit that powerful signal 24/7 be not gon na be cheap . I guess homeowner will be pay to their own death-ray emmissions ? I see lawsuit pop up like mushroom for BGEvil . Posted by : tsl | October 7 , 2011 7:09 AM Post a comment All comment must be approve by the blog author . Please do not resubmit comment if they do not immediately appear . You be not require to use your full name when post , but you should use a real e-mail address . Comments may be republish in print , but we will not publish your e-mail address . Our full Terms of Service be available here . Name : Email Address : URL : Remember personal info ? Comments : Verification ( need to reduce spam ) : About Jay Hancock Jay Hancock have be a financial columnist for The Baltimore Sun since 2001 . He have also be The Baltimore Sun 's diplomatic correspondent in Washington and it chief economics writer . Before moving to Baltimore in 1994 he work for The Virginian-Pilot of Norfolk and The Daily Press of Newport News . His column appear Tuesdays and Sundays . Follow @ jayhancock1 on Twitter Baltimore Sun Business Facebook page Sign up for business text alert -- ADVERTISEMENT -- Recent post Search Jay Hancock 's blog This blog have move Fix the calendar so Christmas be always on Sunday ? Christmas BGE outage for Davidsonville family This will be a Pulitzer finalist feature story this year PSC hit Pepco for bad tree-trimming , communication Why do death rate fall during hard economic time ? Report : EDF may drop plan for Calvert Cliffs reactor You get BGE merger credit even if you switch Speed cameras be fine -- but only up to a point ! Where the Maryland speed cameras be Most Recent Comments Fix the calendar so Christmas be always on Sunday ? ( 9 ) Speedy write : My wife work for a company that i ... [ more ] Christmas BGE outage for Davidsonville family ( 2 ) LK write : OK yes stink to have your power go ... [ more ] Erickson Retirement : Pay the severance money ( 33 ) NotanEricksonFan write : Wow ! Some people be really dupe ... [ more ] Why do death rate fall during hard economic time ? ( 2 ) Cheap Jim write : As for why mortality rise in good ... [ more ] PSC hit Pepco for bad tree-trimming , communication ( 1 ) Phillip write : Who get the money from these fine ... [ more ] Baltimore Sun coverage Business headline Sign up for FREE business alert Get free Sun alert send to your mobile phone . * Sign up for Business text alert Mobile Phone ( require ) Returning user ? Update preference . Sign up for more Sun text alert *Standard message and data rate apply . Click here for Frequently Asked Questions . Charm City Current Subscribe to this feed Categories Airlines BGE/electricity Bmorefiber Celebrity mortgage victim China Corporate welfare Currencies Education Energy Environment Erickson Bankruptcy Executive Pay Finance Government & Business Health Care Immigration Inflation/Deflation Intellectual Property Manufacturing Marketing Maryland Economy Media Nonprofits Personal Finance Politics Poverty & Wealth Quotes of the day Real estate Regulation Reports from the Job Wars Slo-mo fiscal train crash Slots Stock Market Stupid PR pitch Taxes Technology & Innovation Telecom The Great Recession Ticketmaster War on Drugs White collar crime Workplace Blogroll Money & Co . Powered by MT Blogroll Monthly Archives January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 January 2008 December 2007 November 2007 October 2007 September 2007 August 2007 July 2007 June 2007 May 2007 Stay connect Powered by Movable Type 3.36 Print Edition Privacy Policy Terms of Service Search/Archive Feedback Contact Information DC50tv Baltimore Sun Chicago Tribune Daily Press Hartford Courant LA Times Orlando Sentinel Sun Sentinel The Morning Call The Virginia Gazette Baltimore Sun , 501 N. Calvert Street , P.O . Box 1377 , Baltimore , MD 21278 jay hancock 's blog : did your estimate bge bill seem too high ? - business news : stock market , bank and economic observation with columnist jay hancock - baltimoresun.com job car real estate classify advertise home delivery sun store the baltimore sun > business > jay hancock 's blog sign up for free business news text alert : more info be greece lehman bros. or argentina ? | main | food truck be an anthropological phenomenon september 14 , 2011 did your estimate bge bill seem too high ? victoria worden of bel air call to say she think her august bge bill be too high . late last month bge meter reader be help restore power , with the result that bge could n't read about 170,000 meter -- include worden 's . instead bge sent out estimate bill . in 2010 worden 's august bill be in the $ 50 range , she say . this year , after bge estimate it , the august bill be way high -- $ 75.50 , she say . and the average temperature for this august be a degree cooler than last year , accord to bge . `` $ 75 be way out of line , '' worden say . she 's not even sure she run the ac last month , and she expect the bill to be much low . certainly low than the bill from this july , which be really really hot . especially since , after hurricane irene , she say she do n't have any electricity during part of august for almost 40 hour ! but her bill be about the same for both july and august . update , 11 a.m. : bge put out a press release on this this morning , say : `` baltimore gas and electric company ( bge ) today announce that a a result of hurricane irene , meter reader be assign to storm duty and do not read any gas or electric meter from aug. 30 sept. 1 . on august 29 and sept. 2 , some , but not all meter be read . '' bge be say 150,000 household be `` affect , '' but the total number of home with unread meter be 170,000 , include those on budget billing . bge 's full press release be below the fold . if your bill seem too high for august and it 's a hassle , do what worden do and call bge at 410-685-0123 . she say they agree to bill her zero for august and then put everything on the september bill once they read the meter . ( if your estimate bill prof to be too high , bge be suppose to credit the overbilled amount the next time the meter be read . ) i have a similar experience . my july 2011 bill be $ 277 , and i figure august would be way low . but it be n't . bge estimate that i owe $ 252 for last month . my average daily kilowatt use in august , accord to bge 's estimate , be 25 percent more than it be in august 2010 -- even though , a mention , this year 's august be cool than last year 's . ( i do n't lose power after the hurricane , however . ) i ask bge for a response to all customer who may believe they be overbilled . ( bge do n't give me any special treatment , and i do n't ask them to change my bill . ) bge have software that estimate bill when meter reader ca n't get out , say jeannette mill , the utility 's senior vice president for customer relation . the estimate be base on actual , meter usage of similar customer , bge say . sometimes it overestimate . sometimes it underestimate , mill say . but it do n't make allowance for when your power go out . so there be probably other folk out there like worden , with overestimated bill . mill deny that this give a big boost to bge 's cash flow . `` there be no windfall , '' she say . `` there be no significant positive cash flow increase . '' bge spokesman rob gould say that eliminate estimate bill will be one of the benefit of smart meter , due to be instal start next year . they 'll beam your kilowatt use straight to headquarters every day . if you 're on budget billing , where bge smooth out seasonal variation to make your invoice more or less the same every month , your bill probably be n't significantly alter by an unread meter last month , bge say . read bge 's full press release below : baltimore gas and electric company customer may receive estimated bill due to hurricane irene meter reader assign to storm duty for several day during and follow hurricane approximately 150,000 customer will receive estimate bill due to hurricane baltimore , sept. 14 , 2011 baltimore gas and electric company ( bge ) today announce that a a result of hurricane irene , meter reader be assign to storm duty and do not read any gas or electric meter from aug. 30 sept. 1 . on august 29 and sept. 2 , some , but not all meter be read . customer whose meter be not read will receive estimate bill . when an actual reading be take prior to the mailing of next month bill , usage will self-correct to ensure customer be only bill for the energy they actually used during those month . hurricane irene be one of the big storm in bges 200-year history and it force u to suspend normal business operation for several day in order to focus our attention on restoring electric service to our customer a safely and a quickly a possible , say jeannette m. mill , senior vice president and chief customer officer for bge . during large-scale storm restoration event such a hurricane irene , meter reader like the majority of bges 3,000 employee have storm assignment that be different from their normal day-to-day job . bges meter reader be dispatch to address public safety concern during and in the hour and immediate day follow hurricane irene . many of them respond to report of down wire and sit in vehicle near downed wire to ensure the safety of others until a crew could respond and de-energize the wire or restore service . in this capacity , meter reader play a crucial role in our effort to keep our customer and employee safe during this massive restoration effort . to inform the approximately 150,000 customer affect by the estimate meter reading cause by hurricane irene , bge employ the use of it automate telephone dialing system and attempt to contact all of these customer . base on report generate follow these call , bge believe it successfully reach approximately 86 percent of these customer . to far assist customer with monthly bill , bge offer enrollment into it budget billing program which spread payment out over a 12 month period so customer arent a affect by seasonal increase in usage . additionally , customer be encourage to contact bge early if they be have trouble pay their bill to discuss alternative payment option . bge , www.bge.com , headquarter in baltimore , be maryland large gas and electric utility , deliver power to more than 1.2 million electric customer and more than 640,000 natural gas customer in central maryland . the company approximately 3,000 employee be commit to the safe and reliable delivery of gas and electricity , a well a enhance energy management , conservation , environmental stewardship and community assistance . bge be a subsidiary of constellation energy , www.constellation.com , a fortune 500 company also headquarter in baltimore , with subsidiary that generate , sell and provide other energy-related service to customer throughout north america . # # # posted by jay hancock at 6:00 am | permalink | comment ( 29 ) category : bge/electricity comment many homeowner who be without electricity for a week have high bill this month than in july or august of last year . if this bge/constellation 's way of make up for the cost of storm repair ? they always have an angle . what be the definition of public utility ? posted by : baltihon | september 14 , 2011 7:44 am i suggest we pay them what we estimate their service to be worth . my power go out shortly after midnight on thursday . they begin fix it around 6:00 that even . well after the 11:00 am estimate to have it restore . posted by : doom161 | september 14 , 2011 7:45 am maybe bge can take the overcharge and invest them in upgrading their crumbling infrastructure ... not likely . perhaps the psc should fine bge for each outage with part of it go to the people to help those chronically out purchase a generator . posted by : dirth vader | september 14 , 2011 7:45 am from what i have read , the smart meter will charge you more money for the kilowatt you use during peak hour . how it work ... when you get your whopping bill , you reduce the amount of electricity you use during peak hour . this unfairly impact vulnerable population . i know my eighty year old parent and some citizen with health and money concern will turn of their electricity/ac/heat to save money . stop the smart meter ! posted by : baltihon | september 14 , 2011 7:51 am yea , my bill be $ 200 for july . august when it be much cool and we do n't have power our bill be $ 250 . a $ 50 dollar increase ? they estimate our usage at 48 kwh per day even though our usage in june/july be 29 and 36 respectively . they good reimburse u at the charged rate for the electricity . posted by : ryan k | september 14 , 2011 7:56 am this be only the tip of the iceberg . my parent typical monthly bill during the winter be usually at maximum $ 150 per month . however , when they could n't get a reading from the second meter which they instal . they start their so call estimate billing . for roughly 3.5 - 4 month . they be send a bill for $ 2000 . even when i try to reason with them about the average per month usage of $ 150 during the winter month for the past year . they refuse to listen to logic . they say that their people could n't read the meter so estimate bill be use . it take close to a dozen phonecalls , 3 week , and have people come out in order to straighten out the issue . the second meter be n't even on and turn out it never even have electricty pas through it . we do n't even get an apology . the government need to investigate this and see how rampant their billing abuse be . posted by : tae chung | september 14 , 2011 8:14 am my august estimate bill be also very similar to my july bill and high than last year . the estimate should be your last year usage plus or minus a percentage base on the average temperture difference . psc should audit bge 's cash flow for august . of course with customer not have power they should have much less cash than ly . posted by : dennis from catonsville | september 14 , 2011 8:29 am bge always over charge for estimate bill . they may make up the difference the follow month , but for that one month they have accumulate a huge amount of money in overcharge that they either invest or make interest on . then they refund back only the principle . a quick way to make customer basically give bge a free interest free loan where they get to keep the interest . pretty slick ! posted by : afmcalax | september 14 , 2011 8:39 am be an extra $ 25 really go to break ms. worden 's bank ? if it truly be a hardship , she should think of it a a force saving plan . it 's not like bge be just take the money . her bill next month will be much small and easy to pay . be it the interest she 's worry about ? i 'll be generous and use 1 % apr ( find only at internet bank these day ) compound monthly for one month . that come to about 2 cent . there be big problem in the world , move along people . posted by : jimbo | september 14 , 2011 9:03 am $ 75 ? my average monthly bill be around $ 300 . do this woman live in a tiny house ? or am i get overcharged ? posted by : cat mcgee | september 14 , 2011 9:32 am jimbo ... youre an idiot . posted by : logic | september 14 , 2011 10:07 am @ cat mcgee - i be think the same thing ! i 'd be the happy camper in town if i receive a bill that be $ 75 instead of the $ 350 i be charge for august . the only thing worse than summer bge bill be the $ 500+ bill i get in the winter . posted by : jan | september 14 , 2011 10:19 am i think you could read your own meter and call it in ? posted by : phillip | september 14 , 2011 10:35 am my bill be $ 40 less than last summer for august . i admit i 've be more careful about my power usage , but i never turn my a/c off for the whole month , unlike june and july when i be away or the temp let me let in fresh air . bge a all private utility exist to make a profit . they will cut corner , use deceptive but not illegal practice , whatever it take to give their stockholder and executive more in their pocket . whatever genius decide that power generation should be private not government be wrong , because the mantra for private industry be n't serve the public , but make profit . posted by : cate58 | september 14 , 2011 11:54 am wow ! what a bunch of whiner ! first , let me state that i be not an employee of bge nor be anyone in my family . we be so fortunate to live in an area where we have reliable and dependable and relatively inexpensive utility . i wonder how many of the people complain here pay a much or more for cable tv and internet service a they do for the utility that allow them to utilize the cable and internet . do anyone really think that bge intentionally drag their foot when it come to restoring power after irene move through the area because there be also a lot of whining about that . bge make nothing off of their electric consumer if the consumer be n't use any electricity so they be redeploy meter reader to help expedite the reconnection of customer to their electricty . stop complaining and be grateful that we have access to reliable utility unlike much of the world that live in complete darkness when the sun go down because they have nothing except maybe some candle or lantern to light the night , if they 're lucky . posted by : evesham | september 14 , 2011 12:06 pm you people that be get $ 300- $ 500 bill need to stop be such energy hog . you good be live in a 5,000 sqft . house to be get a bill that insanely high . posted by : steve | september 14 , 2011 12:37 pm most folk bill cycle mean they have yet to see a bill that include the hurricane time period . but upon close inspection i see that our electricity delivery rate in the last 6 month be up an average of 25 % over last year . in july it be 32 % high . the average household be on track to pay $ 80 more this year than last to have bge deliver their electricity . a 24 % bump for worse service ... ..hmm ... me think the psc be not do it job . posted by : laura | september 14 , 2011 1:18 pm i dare them to try to do this to me . i still do n't have power from hurricane irene because i have to get electrical work done . between the red tape i have to cut through between them and the city of baltimore it have become a pain just to get my power back on . posted by : calvin | september 14 , 2011 2:23 pm evesham be a constellation stock holder . and evesham , people be not complain that bge delay repair - but that their bill should be less ( or at least not high ) due to the lack of electricity for 1 week . jimbo - when you be on a fix income - $ 25 more per month be a lot . i be talk to a woman last week . her house straddle pa/md . the neighbor in pa have their power within 24 hour with pepco . the md folk wait a week for bge repair . posted by : baltihon | september 14 , 2011 4:57 pm beginning this spring of 2012 , bg & e plan to install smart meter that will transmit 24/7 , intermittent pulsed radiation into every home , school , office and hospital . * smart meter radiation is a category 2b carcinogen according to the world health organization . * smart meter network blanket entire neighborhood with pulsed microwave radiation and thousand of people with smart meter report various symptom including headache , heart palpitation , nausea , dizziness , ringing in ear , and difficulty breathing . * we be at risk for cancer , neurological disease , reproductive and developmental impairment . * smart meter have be link to structural fire . * in place with smart meter it ha been proven that consumer save no money . * smart meter violate privacy by tracking detail of energy usage such a which appliance are in use and when , whether a home is vacant , etc . * company be already harvesting and marketing this type of data . what to do for now if you do n't want a smart meter on your home : 1 . notify both bg & e and the public service commission that you do not want a smart meter affixed to your home . sample letter can be downloaded from www.marylandresidentsagainstsmartmeters.org 2 . join maryland resident against smart meter to work for a moratorium or opt-out a people are doing in other state . contact : info @ marylandresidentsagainstsmartmeters.org for further information contact world health organization , www.who.int and the karolinska institute , www.ki.se . posted by : dr. david eisenberg | september 14 , 2011 11:12 pm smart meter privacy violation . 1 . must-see 4-minute youtube video on smart meter : http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? feature=player_embedded & v=8jnfr_j6kdi smart meter health problem and cancer . 2 . the world health organization on may 31 2011 place the non-ionizing radiation come from wireless smart meter ( and some other wireless device ) on the class 2-b carcinogen list . http : //www.iarc.fr/en/media-centre/pr/2011/pdfs/pr208_e.pdf 3 . the national institute of health month ago ( feb 2011 ) found biological change in the brain after only minutes of exposure to non-ionizing radiation . http : //jama.ama-assn.org/content/305/8/808.abstract 4 . laboratory scientist have observe ( 1 ) human cell damage ( 2 ) dna chain break ( 3 ) breach in the blood-brain barrier from level of non-ionizing radiation low than emit by wireless smart meter . http : //electromagnetichealth.org/electromagnetic-health-blog/cc-video/ 5 . insurance company hired independent laboratory scientist and these scientist also observe cell damage and dna chain break and now the insurance company will not insure liability damage from wireless smart meter and other wireless device . tv video ( 3 minute ) http : //eon3emfblog.net/ ? p=382 so shouldnt installation of wireless smart meter on people 's home stop ? cell phone use and other device be voluntary and can be shut off at the user discretion , but smart meter be emit radiation 24/7 and can not be shut off . 6 . wireless smart meter 100 time more radiation than cell phone . video interview : nuclear scientist , daniel hirsch , ( 5 minute ) http : //stopsmartmeters.org/2011/04/20/daniel-hirsch-on-ccsts-fuzzy-math/ 7 . wireless smart meter cancer , nervous system damage , adverse reproduction affect . video interview : dr. carpenter , new york public health department , dean of public health , ( 2 minute ) http : //emfsafetynetwork.org/ ? p=3946 8 . the karolinska institute in stockholm ( the university that give the nobel prize ) issue global health warning against wireless smart meter . 2-page press release http : //www.scribd.com/doc/48148346/karolinska-institute-press-release 9 . radiation measure from smart meter mounted on a home ( once active in the utility system ) show radiation transmission pulse approximately once every four second 24 hour per day traveling through the body and brain of the inhabitant of that home . youtube video ( 6 minute , 1st minute be sufficient ) http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=urejdxbe6oe note : many of the test on non-ionizing radiation ( the type of radiation emit by smart meter ) have be do use instrument other than smart meter because smart meter have only be in people home for a very short time . but a a wireless smart meter emits 100 time more radiation than a cell phone , it be not difficult to project . if a machine gun ( smart meter ) fire 100 bullet in the same time that a pistol ( cell phone ) fire one bullet , it be not difficult to project the harm that the machine gun can inflict , even if the test be do with the pistol . customer utility bill after smart meter installed . 10 . skyrocketing utility bill after installation tv news video ( 3 minute ) http : //www.bakersfieldnow.com/news/63581287.html ? tab=video 11 . systemic smart meter billing error over 200 % uncovered in australia tv news video ( 7 minute ) http : //au.news.yahoo.com/today-tonight/money/article/-/10241945/power-scandal-exposed/ - video national security risk due to smart meter . 12 . cia director james woolsey call smart grid stupid due to national security problem cause by so-called smart meter . news video ( 1 minute ) http : //www.energynow.com/video/2011/08/10/preview-mix-james-woolsey posted by : robertwilliams | september 15 , 2011 3:23 am jay mention 1 advantage of smart meter . another be that during a power outage , the utility know exactly who be without power . thursday after the storm , bge call u to see if we have power ( we do n't ) . once the power be back on , they call u again to see if power be restore . i have call in , several time , to report power out , i be surprise they do n't have a good way to determine if we have power or not . posted by : maggie | september 15 , 2011 7:30 am the smart grid and all it benefit can be achieve through other , safer technology such a have be do in italy . it be not necessary to harm health , invade privacy , and raise rate in order to have a smart grid . posted by : ruthie kalib eisenberg | september 15 , 2011 8:10 pm i have to question the `` world health organization '' just like i question the `` imf '' or the `` united nation '' . my cell phone be probably more likely to cause me harm than a smart meter . the water i drink from baltimore city be probably lace with high amount of lead and or mercury . the air i breath be fill with toxin from the car you drive . the chicken and milk i drink be fill with hormone . so what do i do ? complain about smart grid ? hell , it 's probably safe than everything else i just talk about . i 'll take smart grid over baltimore city water purposely lased with fluoride to help 'protect me ' any day , i 'll take smart grid over milk saturate with chemical that be to help 'protect ' me from illness . the more important question . will smart grid affect radio frequency like broad band over power line do a few year back make it so emergency responder and ham radio operator receive interference when communicate . that 's my real question ! posted by : phillip | september 19 , 2011 10:46 am could robert williams who write on sept. 15th,2011 , put together an invaluable resource sheet on smart meter , please contact maryland resident against smart meter at info @ marylandresidentsagainstsmartmeters.org . smart meter radiation need to be compare to cell tower radiation , not cell phone radiation , accord to lead expert . each build with a smart meter become part of an interconnect microwave transmission system ( mesh network ) , thus blanket entire neighborhood with pulse microwave radiation . so it 's important to speak with your neighbor . you can turn off your cell phone . you ca n't turn off your smart meter . it operate 24/7 . accord to sage associate , have a smart meter be like living within 500 foot of a major cell tower . accord to uc nuclear expert , the exposure be at least 100x the exposure from a cell phone . posted by : david eisenberg | september 20 , 2011 8:40 pm thanks to energy deregulation people have the ability to choose who they want a their energy supplier and actually save money on their bge bill every month a well a make money every month ! ! ! energy be a life-essential service people use and need every day . you can talk to anybody who be without power during the hurricane and they can tell you how miserable they be without it . regardless of where you live , everyone will continue to pay an energy bill every month . if you get to pay it , why not save some money ! ! ! think about all the people you know who pay an energy bill every month . now you have the ability to help them save some money every month and you can also make some money every month . i live in the laurel area and my power be out for almost a week , but even in the mist of the inconvenience of have no power my husband and i both get an energy income check 2 day after the hurricane . if you want to learn how to profit from government deregulation and possibly the large transfer of wealth in american history visit http : //fcoffee.igniteinc.biz for more information . posted by : felicia | september 27 , 2011 12:21 pm thanks to energy deregulation people have the ability to choose who they want a their energy supplier and actually save money on their bge bill every month a well a make money every month ! ! ! energy be a life-essential service people use and need every day . you can talk to anybody who be without power during the hurricane and they can tell you how miserable they be without it . regardless of where you live , everyone will continue to pay an energy bill every month . if you get to pay it , why not save some money ! ! ! think about all the people you know who pay an energy bill every month . now you have the ability to help them save some money every month and you can also make some money every month . i live in the laurel area and my power be out for almost a week , but even in the mist of the inconvenience of have no power my husband and i both get an energy income check 2 day after the hurricane . if you want to learn how to profit from government deregulation and possibly the large transfer of wealth in american history visit http : //fcoffee.igniteinc.biz for more information posted by : felicia | september 27 , 2011 12:34 pm my bill be surprisingly low for august . i guess that be because of peak reward and budget billing . posted by : christina | september 28 , 2011 10:44 pm i be shock to see that bge guestimated 100 % over the normal usage for august billing - this be certainly a dirty scheme they decide to run to cover repair cost . how do i tell if i get credit on my sept bill for overcharging ? about smart meter ... transmit that powerful signal 24/7 be not gon na be cheap . i guess homeowner will be pay to their own death-ray emmissions ? i see lawsuit pop up like mushroom for bgevil . posted by : tsl | october 7 , 2011 7:09 am post a comment all comment must be approve by the blog author . please do not resubmit comment if they do not immediately appear . you be not require to use your full name when post , but you should use a real e-mail address . comment may be republish in print , but we will not publish your e-mail address . our full term of service be available here . name : email address : url : remember personal info ? comment : verification ( need to reduce spam ) : about jay hancock jay hancock have be a financial columnist for the baltimore sun since 2001 . he have also be the baltimore sun 's diplomatic correspondent in washington and it chief economics writer . before moving to baltimore in 1994 he work for the virginian-pilot of norfolk and the daily press of newport news . his column appear tuesday and sunday . follow @ jayhancock1 on twitter baltimore sun business facebook page sign up for business text alert -- advertisement -- recent post search jay hancock 's blog this blog have move fix the calendar so christmas be always on sunday ? christmas bge outage for davidsonville family this will be a pulitzer finalist feature story this year psc hit pepco for bad tree-trimming , communication why do death rate fall during hard economic time ? report : edf may drop plan for calvert cliff reactor you get bge merger credit even if you switch speed cameras be fine -- but only up to a point ! where the maryland speed cameras be most recent comment fix the calendar so christmas be always on sunday ? ( 9 ) speedy write : my wife work for a company that i ... [ more ] christmas bge outage for davidsonville family ( 2 ) lk write : ok yes stink to have your power go ... [ more ] erickson retirement : pay the severance money ( 33 ) notanericksonfan write : wow ! some people be really dupe ... [ more ] why do death rate fall during hard economic time ? ( 2 ) cheap jim write : a for why mortality rise in good ... [ more ] psc hit pepco for bad tree-trimming , communication ( 1 ) phillip write : who get the money from these fine ... [ more ] baltimore sun coverage business headline sign up for free business alert get free sun alert send to your mobile phone . * sign up for business text alert mobile phone ( require ) return user ? update preference . sign up for more sun text alert *standard message and data rate apply . click here for frequently asked question . charm city current subscribe to this feed category airline bge/electricity bmorefiber celebrity mortgage victim china corporate welfare currency education energy environment erickson bankruptcy executive pay finance government & business health care immigration inflation/deflation intellectual property manufacture marketing maryland economy medium nonprofit personal finance politics poverty & wealth quote of the day real estate regulation report from the job war slo-mo fiscal train crash slot stock market stupid pr pitch tax technology & innovation telecom the great recession ticketmaster war on drug white collar crime workplace blogroll money & co . powered by mt blogroll monthly archive january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 stay connect powered by movable type 3.36 print edition privacy policy term of service search/archive feedback contact information dc50tv baltimore sun chicago tribune daily press hartford courant la time orlando sentinel sun sentinel the morning call the virginia gazette baltimore sun , 501 n. calvert street , p.o . box 1377 , baltimore , md 21278 