Should you buy a banned vacuum cleaner ? How much would you save with EU-approved low wattage model ? - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Friday 06 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Money save tip Telegraph Travel Collection Explore exclusive holiday , tour and cruise . Telegraph International Money Transfer Get the best exchange rate and free expert guidance . Compare energy price Find the cheap gas and electricity price near you . Free Experian credit score Unlimited access to your credit report and score . Should you buy a banned vacuum cleaner ? Or how much would you save with a new , low wattage model ? A new law ban vacuum cleaner above 1,600 watt have prompt a surge in sale of the most powerful machine - but be the ban vacuum good ? Experts claim it be a myth that a machine 's power consumption mean good clean Photo : Alamy By Kate Palmer 10:58AM BST 18 Sep 2014 Follow Comments Householders have be hoover up high-wattage vacuum cleaner a the European Union have ban the most energy-hungry appliance . The ban be buy in on September 1 , prevent the import or manufacture of vacuum cleaner rat above 1,600 watt , which the EU say will save householder money . Retailers can keep sell exist stock of high-powered model until they be all go . Sales volumes for these product have increase by 10.3pc on last year , accord the ONS . Here we explain how much you can save in theory with the new , more efficient model and give all the background . Scroll down for ... Related Articles Dyson to unveil robotic vacuum cleaner 28 Aug 2014 More suck for their buck what people want 22 Aug 2014 Six quirky gadget that cut bill 15 Nov 2013 Can you earn a 65pc return on a wood-burning boiler ? 25 Aug 2014 The device quietly run up your energy bill 27 Jun 2014 Rush to buy vacuum cleaner boost UK retail sale 18 Sep 2014 The new rule : what 's different ? How much will I save with a low-power vacuum cleaner ? Mythbuster : be soon-to-be-banned vacuum well at clean ? Banned : 10 most popular vacuum and which will go Lower wattage cleaner can save around 12.48 a year over the most powerful machine in energy bill , accord to calculation by The Telegraph . But manufacturer argue that the new rule wo n't save householder money in energy consumption , because people will simply clean their home for long . However , energy expert have dismiss this claim . New vacuum rule : what 's change ? Manufacturers wo n't be able to produce any motor exceed 1,600 watt or export them to the UK . The maximum wattage will be lower even far to 900 watt in 2017 . The current average on the market be about 1,800 watt . Currently vacuum cleaner be the only product subject to the ban although next year the EU plan to scrutinise other household appliance . When you buy a vacuum in shop and online , it will be label from A to G accord to it energy efficiency and performance . As customer rush to snap up the most powerful machine , retailer report a 50pc rise in customer purchase vacuum with motor above the 1,600 threshold . Tesco report a 44pc increase in sale , Currys say that it have sell out of it 2,000 to 2,300 watt Hoover Breeze and Pet model , and AO.com sell out of 2,000 watt model . Dyson : 'Boffin bureaucrat be flawed' Inventor Sir James Dyson be now seek a judicial review on the matter , even though none of his vacuum exceed the new limit . Writing for The Telegraph , Sir James criticise the `` flaw '' energy efficiency label . `` It mislead shopper , '' he say . `` The boffin bureaucrat have be test virgin vacuum cleaner in a sterile laboratory . `` All this mean that the grade on the label be not representative of how the vacuum will work in the real world . '' Q . How much could I save by using a less powerful vacuum ? A . You could save an estimate 12.48 a year by switching from the most powerful to the least powerful vacuum . This be base on the cost difference of use a 2,400 watt vacuum cleaner versus a 1,200 watt vacuum cleaner for 2 hour each week . To work out the cost of use your vacuum cleaner , you need to know it energy consumption and the pence-per-kWh charged by your electricity provider . A 1,200 watt vacuum cleaner leave switch on for an hour be equal to 1.2 kWh ( divide 1,200 watt by 1,000 to get the kWh ) so you multiply 1.2 kWh by your provider 's kWh price , to get the cost . So use this vacuum would cost 12p for an hour , if you be with a provider that charge 10p per kWh or 12.48 to vacuum for 2 hour a week over the course of a year . If you have a 2,400 watt vacuum cleaner , the same person would spend 24p for an hour 's vacuuming or 24.96 for the same cleaning regime over the course of a year . Q . But be n't high power vacuum more effective ? A . Dr Kevin Lane , from Oxford University 's Environmental Change Institute , say that this be a myth he argue that the least powerful model could be just a effective . `` Consumers will not have to use their new vacuum cleaner noticeably long to compensate , '' he say . Dr Lane say that manufacturer would redesign their high power product to be more efficient so that they perform just a well . `` They will also be able to make a more inform choice supplier will be less able to put poorly perform product on to the market . '' He say that it be a myth that a machine 's power consumption mean more clean or suction power . Sir James Dyson be sceptical of the new energy label . `` What you see , be not necessarily what you get , '' he say . `` Of course it 's understandable and logical from consumer perspective , and some manufacturer marketing play up to this giving the impression that big be good . '' Matthew Leach , Professor of Energy Systems at the University of Surrey , say that there be no one-to-one relationship between power consumption and effectiveness . He say : `` Some of the high perform model available on the market such a the Dysons be not the high power rating , and so it be possible to clean well with low power use . Prof Leach predict a rapid response by manufacturer to re-design the most power hungry machine . He say : `` They will bring good design forward which manage to have similar suction power for the low electricity consumption , a they now have to think directly about energy use , and not just suction power in their design . '' Q . So which vacuum be best to buy ? A . The vacuum cleaner market be a confusing mix of measurement include watt , air watt and litre capacity . But these unit be not a critical a you might think , accord to Charles Gordon , founder of advice website whatvacuum.com . He say : `` A 1,500 watt motor , for example , be quite sufficient it how it pick up dirt and what it emit into the air that be important . '' Mr Gordon add that the new A to G rating would be a useful point of reference for customer . `` At last the consumer have the opportunity of actually read what the product performance , whereas now we 're perplex by manufacturer-speak . '' `` Now we have a measure meant like togs for duvet that everyone can understand , '' he say . Mr Gordon say that choosing the best vacuum depend on your home and any allergy you may have . `` Youve get to identify what your house need be . If you have a lot of hard floor , then theres no point get an upright cleaner , you need a cylinder or a tank . `` Likewise , if youve got lot of carpet an upright be by far the best way to clean your carpet . `` Weight be critical both for use less electricity , and for practical reason , for example if an elderly person need to carry it up the stair . '' BANNED : Six out of 10 bestseller Six out of ten best-selling vacuum , a list by Amazon.co.uk , be soon to be extinct from the British high street and online . The most powerful soon-to-be-abolished model be VonHaus ' Cyclonic Bagless cylinder vacuum , which cost 100 and us 2,400 watt . Models from Vax , Panasonic , Sebo and Hoover will also be subject to the cap . No Dyson vacuum will be ban although if the 2017 cap to 900 watt come into effect , every one of these bestseller would be prohibit . Manufacturer Model Retail price Power ( watt ) Vax Bagless Cylinder Vacuum 250 1,800 Russell Hobbs Power Cyclonic 70 1,800 Hoover Spirit SP2102 80 2,100 Dyson DC41 Animal Ball 390 Under 1,600 Numatic HVR200A Henry A1 155 1,200 Panasonic Bagged Vacuum 100 1,900 Zanussi AirSpeed Lite Multi-Cyclonic 70 1,600 Sebo K1PRO Cylinder 200 2,100 VonHaus Cyclonic Bagless cylinder vacuum 100 2,400 Bosch Power Silence Bagless 250 1,200 Based on Amazon UK most popular vacuum cleaner How to slash your household bill . Our weekly newsletter have our very best idea on cut energy bill . Just click here and enter your email Compare current account available on the market Compare Money save tip UK News Finance Personal Finance Household bill Energy bill Related Partners Find out how to invest in recovery with this free guide Help protect yourself from Identity Fraud with CreditExpert The best way to transfer money overseas Get our free weekly Money newsletter In Money saving tip How to live for free : 7 tip from an expert 'I spot and exploit pricing error for a living' The legal way to avoid pay the TV licence fee The device quietly run up your energy bill Get our free weekly Money newsletter Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Compare current account Compare More from the web Advertisement More from the web Loading Personal Finance Most Viewed TODAY PAST WEEK PAST MONTH Four scenario show how quickly your pension will disappear Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Lord Rothschild : 'Investors face a geopolitical situation a dangerous a any since WW2' Savers who cash in final salary pension be 'irrational ' , say watchdog Labour set out it raid on pension : how you should adjust your saving plan Bez : 'Bankrupted twice , I 'll never be a saver' Premium Bonds : You 're 2,000 time more likely to win 1m than ... zilch Booking a flight ? This table show how time affect ticket pricing Irving Kahn , the world 's old investor , dy at 109 Buy your child a home and avoid the tax I earn 55k a year . Can I afford private school for my son ? Final salary pension ? Your retirement income be at risk Craig Charles : 'Red Dwarf pay 600 a show my co-star get 1,200' What 's best : repay your mortgage v borrow even more ... to invest ? Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Best of Australia Australias top 10 wildlife encounter View Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge View Money Transfers Is this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast should you buy a banned vacuum cleaner ? how much would you save with eu-approved low wattage model ? - telegraph accessibility link skip to article skip to navigation advertisement telegraph.co.uk search - enhance by opentext friday 06 march 2015 home video news world sport finance comment culture travel life woman fashion luxury tech car company comment personal finance isas economy market property enterprise deal investor isas invest pension saving interest rate fund mortgage credit card expat money video special report home finance personal finance money save tip telegraph travel collection explore exclusive holiday , tour and cruise . telegraph international money transfer get the best exchange rate and free expert guidance . compare energy price find the cheap gas and electricity price near you . free experian credit score unlimited access to your credit report and score . should you buy a banned vacuum cleaner ? or how much would you save with a new , low wattage model ? a new law ban vacuum cleaner above 1,600 watt have prompt a surge in sale of the most powerful machine - but be the ban vacuum good ? expert claim it be a myth that a machine 's power consumption mean good clean photo : alamy by kate palmer 10:58am bst 18 sep 2014 follow comment householder have be hoover up high-wattage vacuum cleaner a the european union have ban the most energy-hungry appliance . the ban be buy in on september 1 , prevent the import or manufacture of vacuum cleaner rat above 1,600 watt , which the eu say will save householder money . retailer can keep sell exist stock of high-powered model until they be all go . sale volumes for these product have increase by 10.3pc on last year , accord the ons . here we explain how much you can save in theory with the new , more efficient model and give all the background . scroll down for ... related article dyson to unveil robotic vacuum cleaner 28 aug 2014 more suck for their buck what people want 22 aug 2014 six quirky gadget that cut bill 15 nov 2013 can you earn a 65pc return on a wood-burning boiler ? 25 aug 2014 the device quietly run up your energy bill 27 jun 2014 rush to buy vacuum cleaner boost uk retail sale 18 sep 2014 the new rule : what 's different ? how much will i save with a low-power vacuum cleaner ? mythbuster : be soon-to-be-banned vacuum well at clean ? banned : 10 most popular vacuum and which will go low wattage cleaner can save around 12.48 a year over the most powerful machine in energy bill , accord to calculation by the telegraph . but manufacturer argue that the new rule wo n't save householder money in energy consumption , because people will simply clean their home for long . however , energy expert have dismiss this claim . new vacuum rule : what 's change ? manufacturer wo n't be able to produce any motor exceed 1,600 watt or export them to the uk . the maximum wattage will be lower even far to 900 watt in 2017 . the current average on the market be about 1,800 watt . currently vacuum cleaner be the only product subject to the ban although next year the eu plan to scrutinise other household appliance . when you buy a vacuum in shop and online , it will be label from a to g accord to it energy efficiency and performance . a customer rush to snap up the most powerful machine , retailer report a 50pc rise in customer purchase vacuum with motor above the 1,600 threshold . tesco report a 44pc increase in sale , curry say that it have sell out of it 2,000 to 2,300 watt hoover breeze and pet model , and ao.com sell out of 2,000 watt model . dyson : 'boffin bureaucrat be flawed' inventor sir james dyson be now seek a judicial review on the matter , even though none of his vacuum exceed the new limit . write for the telegraph , sir james criticise the `` flaw '' energy efficiency label . `` it mislead shopper , '' he say . `` the boffin bureaucrat have be test virgin vacuum cleaner in a sterile laboratory . `` all this mean that the grade on the label be not representative of how the vacuum will work in the real world . '' q . how much could i save by using a less powerful vacuum ? a . you could save an estimate 12.48 a year by switching from the most powerful to the least powerful vacuum . this be base on the cost difference of use a 2,400 watt vacuum cleaner versus a 1,200 watt vacuum cleaner for 2 hour each week . to work out the cost of use your vacuum cleaner , you need to know it energy consumption and the pence-per-kwh charged by your electricity provider . a 1,200 watt vacuum cleaner leave switch on for an hour be equal to 1.2 kwh ( divide 1,200 watt by 1,000 to get the kwh ) so you multiply 1.2 kwh by your provider 's kwh price , to get the cost . so use this vacuum would cost 12p for an hour , if you be with a provider that charge 10p per kwh or 12.48 to vacuum for 2 hour a week over the course of a year . if you have a 2,400 watt vacuum cleaner , the same person would spend 24p for an hour 's vacuuming or 24.96 for the same cleaning regime over the course of a year . q . but be n't high power vacuum more effective ? a . dr kevin lane , from oxford university 's environmental change institute , say that this be a myth he argue that the least powerful model could be just a effective . `` consumer will not have to use their new vacuum cleaner noticeably long to compensate , '' he say . dr lane say that manufacturer would redesign their high power product to be more efficient so that they perform just a well . `` they will also be able to make a more inform choice supplier will be less able to put poorly perform product on to the market . '' he say that it be a myth that a machine 's power consumption mean more clean or suction power . sir james dyson be sceptical of the new energy label . `` what you see , be not necessarily what you get , '' he say . `` of course it 's understandable and logical from consumer perspective , and some manufacturer marketing play up to this giving the impression that big be good . '' matthew leach , professor of energy system at the university of surrey , say that there be no one-to-one relationship between power consumption and effectiveness . he say : `` some of the high perform model available on the market such a the dysons be not the high power rating , and so it be possible to clean well with low power use . prof leach predict a rapid response by manufacturer to re-design the most power hungry machine . he say : `` they will bring good design forward which manage to have similar suction power for the low electricity consumption , a they now have to think directly about energy use , and not just suction power in their design . '' q . so which vacuum be best to buy ? a . the vacuum cleaner market be a confusing mix of measurement include watt , air watt and litre capacity . but these unit be not a critical a you might think , accord to charles gordon , founder of advice website whatvacuum.com . he say : `` a 1,500 watt motor , for example , be quite sufficient it how it pick up dirt and what it emit into the air that be important . '' mr gordon add that the new a to g rating would be a useful point of reference for customer . `` at last the consumer have the opportunity of actually read what the product performance , whereas now we 're perplex by manufacturer-speak . '' `` now we have a measure meant like togs for duvet that everyone can understand , '' he say . mr gordon say that choosing the best vacuum depend on your home and any allergy you may have . `` youve get to identify what your house need be . if you have a lot of hard floor , then theres no point get an upright cleaner , you need a cylinder or a tank . `` likewise , if youve got lot of carpet an upright be by far the best way to clean your carpet . `` weight be critical both for use less electricity , and for practical reason , for example if an elderly person need to carry it up the stair . '' ban : six out of 10 bestseller six out of ten best-selling vacuum , a list by amazon.co.uk , be soon to be extinct from the british high street and online . the most powerful soon-to-be-abolished model be vonhaus ' cyclonic bagless cylinder vacuum , which cost 100 and us 2,400 watt . model from vax , panasonic , sebo and hoover will also be subject to the cap . no dyson vacuum will be ban although if the 2017 cap to 900 watt come into effect , every one of these bestseller would be prohibit . manufacturer model retail price power ( watt ) vax bagless cylinder vacuum 250 1,800 russell hobbs power cyclonic 70 1,800 hoover spirit sp2102 80 2,100 dyson dc41 animal ball 390 under 1,600 numatic hvr200a henry a1 155 1,200 panasonic bagged vacuum 100 1,900 zanussi airspeed lite multi-cyclonic 70 1,600 sebo k1pro cylinder 200 2,100 vonhaus cyclonic bagless cylinder vacuum 100 2,400 bosch power silence bagless 250 1,200 base on amazon uk most popular vacuum cleaner how to slash your household bill . our weekly newsletter have our very best idea on cut energy bill . just click here and enter your email compare current account available on the market compare money save tip uk news finance personal finance household bill energy bill related partner find out how to invest in recovery with this free guide help protect yourself from identity fraud with creditexpert the best way to transfer money overseas get our free weekly money newsletter in money saving tip how to live for free : 7 tip from an expert 'i spot and exploit pricing error for a living' the legal way to avoid pay the tv licence fee the device quietly run up your energy bill get our free weekly money newsletter read more personal finance news young briton aspire to financial independence by age 23 nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that comment how i book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel consumer affair editor dan hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website skyscanner comment martin lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage the moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home comment green deal : beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' comment mapped : the best place to live in england and wale find out how desirable the area you live in be . the telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic comment 1.5pc cash isa now pay 10 monthly bonus hsbc be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash isa , which pay 1.5pc comment i 'm a first-time buyer . should i wait for the new discounted starter home ? aspire homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the government scheme comment first-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket if house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property comment do i need a pension when i 've get five buy-to-let property ? christine osborne have two property in bulgaria . should she sell ? will her web business provide for her retirement ? comment one of britain 's best fund picker name isas for first timer gary potter , one of britain big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying comment advertisement how we moderate telegraphuk please enable javascript to view the comment power by disqus . blog comment power by disqus advertisement compare current account compare more from the web advertisement more from the web load personal finance most viewed today past week past month four scenario show how quickly your pension will disappear martin lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage do i need a pension when i 've get five buy-to-let property ? lord rothschild : 'investors face a geopolitical situation a dangerous a any since ww2' saver who cash in final salary pension be 'irrational ' , say watchdog labour set out it raid on pension : how you should adjust your saving plan bez : 'bankrupted twice , i 'll never be a saver' premium bond : you 're 2,000 time more likely to win 1m than ... zilch book a flight ? this table show how time affect ticket pricing irving kahn , the world 's old investor , dy at 109 buy your child a home and avoid the tax i earn 55k a year . can i afford private school for my son ? final salary pension ? your retirement income be at risk craig charles : 'red dwarf pay 600 a show my co-star get 1,200' what 's best : repay your mortgage v borrow even more ... to invest ? advertisement more from the telegraph load sponsored feature best of australia australia top 10 wildlife encounter view driven by adventure watch the brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge view money transfer be this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? view back to top home finance financial crisis debt crisis live market bank and finance city diary economics transport medium and telecom energy retail news personal finance your business invest saving student finance job job search company china business money deal money transfer comment alex find an ifa contact u privacy and cooky advertise fantasy football ticket announcement reader print follow u apps epaper expat promotion subscriber syndication copyright of telegraph medium group limited 2015 term and condition today 's news archive style book weather forecast 