More on Measuring Energy In Green Building : Absolute v Relative : TreeHugger Ca n't get enough TreeHugger ? Sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . Daily and Weekly newsletter available . Email Address* Sign Up X 10 year of look forward Design Technology Transportation Science Business Living Energy Slideshows Social More on Measuring Energy In Green Building : Absolute v Relative Lloyd Alter ( @ lloydalter ) Design / Sustainable Product Design December 30 , 2010 Share on Facebook heat loss from Passivhaus . Source : wikipedia Defining green building be not easy ; for many , all that matter be energy consumption . One of the major way of reduce consumption be to increase the amount of insulation , but that be only one component , and not necessarily the most important one . Earlier this week I write a post about `` a strange debate go on at Green Building Advisor , where a writer think `` home buyer have be `` brainwash '' into think only about R-values , a energy code give short shrift to the importance of airtightness . '' Scott Gibson be , I think , say that there be not much point in worrying about R value if you do n't ensure that the building be properly seal . I use the post a a springboard to write Which Is Worse , Air Leaks or Heat Loss ? Neither . It 's Energy Consumption That Matters and discuss my favourite argument : The debate go back and forth , but not once to they address the real point : How much energy be be consume over all . They be preoccupy with relative efficiency when they should be concern with absolute consumption . I then receive an email that include the following : Your editorial piece on the Green Building Advisor discussion reminds me of the environmental thinking and write done in the 1970s & 1980s a well a ideologue who propose simplistic solution with no proof or evidence that they could work or have work . You not only ridicule the web site and it mission but also misrepresent this particular discussion . In my opinion you owe the web site and the participant in this discussion an apology . You propose that the building code should accomplish energy efficiency by mandating a top level on absolute energy consumption without propose any mean to accomplish it other than reduce building size and/or implement photovoltaic solar panel . Well , that be not entirely true ; there be lot of way to achieve a fix cap . So I respond : Frankly , I think it be silly argument in the first place , since R-value be a design decision and air leak be an execution issue . I think then that it be a comparison of apple and orange . Siting , windows area , building form and most importantly , size , all play important role . Just discuss these two item in the absence of the large discussion be what I would call simplistic . My correspondent respond : You have also set yourself up as the authority and judge them ignorant of the real issue and it come through strongly in your writing . This be why I react . You continue to hold that the only important thing be to reduce absolute reduction of energy consumption by reducing the size of the home and use less insulation in small home especially for the poor . The latter do not make any sense to me . Regardless of how much insulation they have most building , condo and house build in North America today leak energy like a sieve and our worldwide population continue to grow at an alarm rate so clearly just make them small be not go to work . Without deal with how to make them energy efficient you be rid a one trick pony . More importantly very few agree with your viewpoint especially in the real world in which we live ... . It be simplistic and do n't work . How Should We Really Measure Green Building ? At this point I do not know what to do , other than turn this into a post and open it for discussion and reiterate my point . I have never say that the only solution be to make thing small . There be lot of solution , include more insulation , well windows and both passive and active solar . My point be that if you regulate absolute consumption rather than rate through each component , then people have option and flexibility in how they build . It also give a nice inducement to build small and to build multifamily . We get the McMansion because pump up the volume of a house be cheap ; if a builder have to pump up the insulation or reduce the window size to maintain the same energy use , they might never have be build . You do not need to build R-50 wall with passivhaus standard window if you be live in a multifamily dwell or a thousand square foot ; we should have a progressive scale so that the standard be appropriate to the type of dwell . One size do not fit all . That be why I think an absolute energy consumption target remain best way to deal with it . It should obviously be a high enough target to eliminate condo and house that leak like sieve . Forget Energy Star and LEED , Green Building be Passivhaus My correspondent complains that I be `` alienate many of the very people who work on create solution include those in the Passive House/Passiv Haus movement . '' I sincerely hope that this be n't so , I think it be the future of housing and the best standard we have . I agree with Alex Wilson that `` Passive House be one of the most exciting thing to come along in decade . '' ( quote from Katrin Klingenberg complaint about my post here ) But I be not the first to note that when you be measure kWh/m2 like they do in Passivhaus , it be hard to build small ; the calculation work out almost universally that a large home will use more energy than a small one , but will use less per square meter . As one designer on the Passivhaus bulletin board note , it `` beg the question of why small building need to ( should have to ? ) perform good than large building to qualify . '' I think the opposite should be true . I really do believe that small building should not have to perform a well a big one . They will ultimately use less energy , and the mathematics almost demand it , since there be more surface area per unit volume and some energy consume component , like a fridge or a heat exchanger fan , be the same in a big house or a small one.One way to make it work be to use an absolute consumption cap instead of a relative standard . In the end though , there be a much simpler way to look at it . I use a lot of analogy to the food movement , and come back to Michael Pollan 's Food Rule # 44 , Pay More , Eat Less . Substitute building for food : The American food building system have for many year devote it energy to increase quantity and reduce price rather than improve quality . We have to pay more , and build less . Simple , yes . But not simplistic . More on relative v absolute : Big Steps in Building : Change our Building Codes from Relative to Absolute How Should We Really Measure Green Building ? 5 Building Code Changes That Absolutely Can not Wait Until 2030 Stop With the Glass Faades Already Follow me on Twitter ! @ lloydalter and friend me on Facebook Related on TreeHugger.com : Open Up Lamp expand like a flower when the light bulb turn on Balance stool strengthens your core while you work A look at the first of Philippe Starck 's `` ecologically conscious '' prefab Tags : Designers | Green Building | passive house facebook twitter google+ pinterest Please enable JavaScript to view the comment . MOST POPULAR RIGHT NOW National Bank of Abu Dhabi : Even at $ 10 per barrel , oil ca n't match solar on cost Emulsifiers in packaged food be wreak havoc with our digestive tract LED night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The ELF could replace a car for a lot of people 21 Natural Home Remedies for Pets Prefab Australian home produce more energy than it use Tesla now have 2,000 Superchargers , which have power 86 million electric mile ! 11 easy way to reduce your plastic waste today 7 surprising benefit of an afternoon nap WHAT 'S HOT ON FACEBOOK 7 household item you should never buy use Found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? Check this list , ... by Kimberley Mok in Green Home Skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin The beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by Katherine Martinko in Organic Beauty Want to avoid toxin on your food ? Shop the Clean Fifteen This list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by Margaret Badore in Green Food How to dry your hand use just one paper towel Behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by Stephen Messenger in Health New to TreeHugger ? 10 reason to go green starting NOW Have you be look for a reason to go green ? Look no further ... by Team Treehugger in HTGG Sign Up for TreeHugger 's Newsletters ! Our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by Lloyd Alter in Sustainable Product Design A Glimpse of What We 've Lost : 10 Extinct Animals in Photos We 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by Mat McDermott in Natural Sciences About Us Contact Us Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Mother Nature Network COPYRIGHT 2015 MNN HOLDING COMPANY , LLC . ALL RIGHTS RESERVED . more on measuring energy in green building : absolute v relative : treehugger ca n't get enough treehugger ? sign up now and have it send straight to your inbox . daily and weekly newsletter available . email address* sign up x 10 year of look forward design technology transportation science business live energy slideshows social more on measuring energy in green building : absolute v relative lloyd alter ( @ lloydalter ) design / sustainable product design december 30 , 2010 share on facebook heat loss from passivhaus . source : wikipedia define green building be not easy ; for many , all that matter be energy consumption . one of the major way of reduce consumption be to increase the amount of insulation , but that be only one component , and not necessarily the most important one . early this week i write a post about `` a strange debate go on at green building advisor , where a writer think `` home buyer have be `` brainwash '' into think only about r-values , a energy code give short shrift to the importance of airtightness . '' scott gibson be , i think , say that there be not much point in worrying about r value if you do n't ensure that the building be properly seal . i use the post a a springboard to write which be worse , air leak or heat loss ? neither . it 's energy consumption that matter and discuss my favourite argument : the debate go back and forth , but not once to they address the real point : how much energy be be consume over all . they be preoccupy with relative efficiency when they should be concern with absolute consumption . i then receive an email that include the following : your editorial piece on the green building advisor discussion reminds me of the environmental thinking and write done in the 1970s & 1980s a well a ideologue who propose simplistic solution with no proof or evidence that they could work or have work . you not only ridicule the web site and it mission but also misrepresent this particular discussion . in my opinion you owe the web site and the participant in this discussion an apology . you propose that the building code should accomplish energy efficiency by mandating a top level on absolute energy consumption without propose any mean to accomplish it other than reduce building size and/or implement photovoltaic solar panel . well , that be not entirely true ; there be lot of way to achieve a fix cap . so i respond : frankly , i think it be silly argument in the first place , since r-value be a design decision and air leak be an execution issue . i think then that it be a comparison of apple and orange . sit , windows area , building form and most importantly , size , all play important role . just discuss these two item in the absence of the large discussion be what i would call simplistic . my correspondent respond : you have also set yourself up as the authority and judge them ignorant of the real issue and it come through strongly in your writing . this be why i react . you continue to hold that the only important thing be to reduce absolute reduction of energy consumption by reducing the size of the home and use less insulation in small home especially for the poor . the latter do not make any sense to me . regardless of how much insulation they have most building , condo and house build in north america today leak energy like a sieve and our worldwide population continue to grow at an alarm rate so clearly just make them small be not go to work . without deal with how to make them energy efficient you be rid a one trick pony . more importantly very few agree with your viewpoint especially in the real world in which we live ... . it be simplistic and do n't work . how should we really measure green building ? at this point i do not know what to do , other than turn this into a post and open it for discussion and reiterate my point . i have never say that the only solution be to make thing small . there be lot of solution , include more insulation , well windows and both passive and active solar . my point be that if you regulate absolute consumption rather than rate through each component , then people have option and flexibility in how they build . it also give a nice inducement to build small and to build multifamily . we get the mcmansion because pump up the volume of a house be cheap ; if a builder have to pump up the insulation or reduce the window size to maintain the same energy use , they might never have be build . you do not need to build r-50 wall with passivhaus standard window if you be live in a multifamily dwell or a thousand square foot ; we should have a progressive scale so that the standard be appropriate to the type of dwell . one size do not fit all . that be why i think an absolute energy consumption target remain best way to deal with it . it should obviously be a high enough target to eliminate condo and house that leak like sieve . forget energy star and leed , green building be passivhaus my correspondent complains that i be `` alienate many of the very people who work on create solution include those in the passive house/passiv haus movement . '' i sincerely hope that this be n't so , i think it be the future of housing and the best standard we have . i agree with alex wilson that `` passive house be one of the most exciting thing to come along in decade . '' ( quote from katrin klingenberg complaint about my post here ) but i be not the first to note that when you be measure kwh/m2 like they do in passivhaus , it be hard to build small ; the calculation work out almost universally that a large home will use more energy than a small one , but will use less per square meter . a one designer on the passivhaus bulletin board note , it `` beg the question of why small building need to ( should have to ? ) perform good than large building to qualify . '' i think the opposite should be true . i really do believe that small building should not have to perform a well a big one . they will ultimately use less energy , and the mathematics almost demand it , since there be more surface area per unit volume and some energy consume component , like a fridge or a heat exchanger fan , be the same in a big house or a small one.one way to make it work be to use an absolute consumption cap instead of a relative standard . in the end though , there be a much simpler way to look at it . i use a lot of analogy to the food movement , and come back to michael pollan 's food rule # 44 , pay more , eat le . substitute building for food : the american food building system have for many year devote it energy to increase quantity and reduce price rather than improve quality . we have to pay more , and build less . simple , yes . but not simplistic . more on relative v absolute : big step in building : change our building code from relative to absolute how should we really measure green building ? 5 building code change that absolutely can not wait until 2030 stop with the glass faades already follow me on twitter ! @ lloydalter and friend me on facebook related on treehugger.com : open up lamp expand like a flower when the light bulb turn on balance stool strengthens your core while you work a look at the first of philippe starck 's `` ecologically conscious '' prefab tag : designer | green building | passive house facebook twitter google+ pinterest please enable javascript to view the comment . most popular right now national bank of abu dhabi : even at $ 10 per barrel , oil ca n't match solar on cost emulsifier in packaged food be wreak havoc with our digestive tract lead night light outlet cover install in second , use just 5 cent of power per year skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin the elf could replace a car for a lot of people 21 natural home remedy for pet prefab australian home produce more energy than it use tesla now have 2,000 supercharger , which have power 86 million electric mile ! 11 easy way to reduce your plastic waste today 7 surprising benefit of an afternoon nap what 's hot on facebook 7 household item you should never buy use found a cheap or free mattress or baby crib somewhere ? check this list , ... by kimberley mok in green home skip the fancy lotion and use oil to moisturize your skin the beauty industry do n't want you to know how pointless moisturize lotion actually ... by katherine martinko in organic beauty want to avoid toxin on your food ? shop the clean fifteen this list can help you avoid pesticide without only eat organic . by margaret badore in green food how to dry your hand use just one paper towel behold , wet-handed reader , there 's a good way . by stephen messenger in health new to treehugger ? 10 reason to go green starting now have you be look for a reason to go green ? look no further ... by team treehugger in htgg sign up for treehugger 's newsletter ! our email newsletter will help you keep up with all thing green ! by lloyd alter in sustainable product design a glimpse of what we 've lost : 10 extinct animal in photo we 're in the midst of the sixth great extinction right now , with the ... by mat mcdermott in natural science about u contact u newsletter r privacy policy mother nature network copyright 2015 mnn holding company , llc . all right reserve . 