Abbott Submits Carbon Tax Repeal Bills To House For Third Time | AustralianPolitics.com Home About CONTACT AUDIO WHITLAM DISMISSAL WORDS OPINION U.S.A . CONSTITUTION U.K . LISTS AustralianPolitics.com DEMOCRACY KEY TERMS CONVENTIONS PRESSURE GROUPS CONSTITUTION FULL TEXT GOVERNOR-GENERAL HIGH COURT FEDERALISM CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM PARLIAMENT GENERAL INFORMATION FUNCTIONS HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SENATE PARLIAMENT IN ACTION LEGISLATION PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEES HANSARD BACKBENCHERS FIRST / MAIDEN SPEECHES OPPOSITION QUESTION TIME DOUBLE DISSOLUTIONS SPEAKER & OTHER PEOPLE PARLIAMENTARY REFORM EXECUTIVE CABINET & MINISTRY PUBLIC SERVICE PRIME MINISTER - TONY ABBOTT - KEVIN RUDD - JULIA GILLARD - JOHN HOWARD - PAUL KEATING - BOB HAWKE - MALCOLM FRASER - GOUGH WHITLAM PARTIES REGISTERED PARTIES AUSTRALIAN LABOR PARTY LIBERAL PARTY THE NATIONALS GREENS AUSTRALIAN DEMOCRATS PAULINE HANSONS ONE NATION ELECTIONS ELECTORAL SYSTEM FEATURES & HISTORY FEDERAL & STATE ELECTIONS ELECTION STATISTICS ELECTION COSTS , FUNDING & DONATIONS VOTING BEHAVIOUR STATES NEW SOUTH WALES VICTORIA QUEENSLAND WESTERN AUSTRALIA SOUTH AUSTRALIA TASMANIA AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY NORTHERN TERRITORY LOCAL GOVERNMENT TOPICS CLICK HERE FOR A LIST OF TOPICS & ISSUES FOREIGN POLICY REFORM Abbott Submits Carbon Tax Repeal Bills To House Of Representatives For Third Time Jun 23 , 2014 Facebook 2 Twitter 0 Google+ 0 LinkedIn 1 The Prime Minister , Tony Abbott , have submit the carbon tax repeal bill to the House of Representatives for the third time since last year election . The bill be pass by the House last year and reject by the Senate in March this year . The new Senate have be recall on July 7 to consider the bill again . With Budget legislation still stall in the Senate , the government concentrate on the carbon tax legislation in Question Time . In the morning , Abbott visit Oxford Freezers in Laverton , Melbourne , and talk about the importance of repeal the carbon tax . In his weekly video message on the weekend , Abbott also focus on the carbon tax and the delivery of his election commitment . Until next Monday , the ALP and the Greens have the number in the Senate to reject the legislation . From July 1 , the balance of power in the Senate shift to the 8 crossbencher , include 3 from the Palmer United Party , 1 Motoring Enthusiast Party , 1 Family First , 1 Liberal Democrats , 1 Democratic Labour Party and 1 independent . If the ALP ( 25 ) and the Greens ( 10 ) be oppose , the government need 6 of the 8 crossbencher to pass legislation . If 3 crossbencher join with the ALP and Greens , the government can be obstruct . The repeal of the carbon tax be likely to be achieve with the support of a majority of the crossbencher , include the Palmer United Party senator and Senato-elect Ricky Muir . Listen to Abbotts Laverton medium conference ( 9m ) Audio clip : Adobe Flash Player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . Download the late version here . You also need to have JavaScript enable in your browser . Listen to Abbotts Second Reading Speech ( 12m transcript below ) Audio clip : Adobe Flash Player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . Download the late version here . You also need to have JavaScript enable in your browser . Watch Abbotts speech ( 12m ) Listen to Abbotts medium conference ( 9m ) Audio clip : Adobe Flash Player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . Download the late version here . You also need to have JavaScript enable in your browser . Listen to Question Time ( 84m ) Audio clip : Adobe Flash Player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . Download the late version here . You also need to have JavaScript enable in your browser . Watch Question Time ( 85m ) Watch Abbotts weekend video message ( 2m ) Statement from Prime Minister Tony Abbott . Today I re-introduced the Carbon Tax repeal bill into Parliament . We be do this because of our commitment to take real action to help family deal with cost of living pressure . Scrapping the Carbon Tax will save the average family $ 550 a year . It will also remove a $ 9 billion hit on the economy . This will help create job . The Carbon Tax could have be scrap by now but Labor and the Greens continue to oppose our attempt to do so . On 1 July , the new Senate take office and it should immediately help family and small business by deal with this matter urgently . Scrapping the Carbon Tax be part of the Governments Economic Action Strategy to build a strong , prosperous economy for a safe , secure Australia . Prime Minister Tony Abbotts Second Reading speech to the House of Representatives on the Clean Energy Legislation ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 . Thanks Mr Deputy Speaker . I present the Clean Energy Legislation ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No . 2 and the explanatory memorandum to this Bill and the True-up Shortfall Levy ( General ) ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No . 2 , the True-up Shortfall Levy ( Excise ) ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 No.2 , the Customs Tariff Amendment ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No.2 , the Excise Tariff Amendment ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No.2 , the Ozone Protection and Synthetic Greenhouse Gas ( Import Levy ) Amendment ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No . 2 and the Ozone Protection and Synthetic Greenhouse Gas ( Manufacture Levy ) Amendment ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 , No.2 . Thanks so much Mr Deputy Speaker , today the Government reintroduces the Clean Energy Legislation ( Carbon Tax Repeal ) Bill 2013 . As I say back in November of last year when I introduce this Bill for the first time , the Australian people have already vote on this Bill and now the Parliament again get it chance . The people have speak and now , it up to this Parliament to show that it listen . The Australian people pronounce their judgment against the carbon tax : they want it gone and this Bill delivers . It deliver on the Coalitions commitment to the Australian people to scrap this toxic tax . So Mr Deputy Speaker , the Budget that the Government deliver recently be tough but it be visionary . It be about set this country on a path to long-term structural change . But , a cornerstone of this Governments plan for a strong economy , for low tax , for less regulation and for strong business , be the repeal of the carbon tax . The first impact of this Bill will be on household whose overall cost will fall by about $ 550 a year on average . Because of this Bill , household electricity bill will be around $ 200 low next financial year without the carbon tax . Household gas bill will be about $ 70 low next financial year without the carbon tax . Prices for grocery , for household item and for service will also fall because the price of power be embed in every price in our economy . This be a Bill to reduce the bill of the Australian people thats what it be it a Bill to reduce the bill of the people of Australia . When the price of power come down , the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will be ready to ensure that these price reduction be pass on to household and to business . But and this be important Mr Deputy Speaker family and pensioner will keep the tax cut and the benefit increase already provide . The carbon tax will go , but the carbon tax compensation will stay so that every Australian should be good off . Repealing the carbon tax will reduce cost for all Australian business , for every single one of them . Now the previous government say and argue that only big business pay the carbon tax but this simply wasnt true . Every small business pay the carbon tax through high electricity and gas bill and high cost for supply . As well , Mr Deputy Speaker , the carbon tax act a a reverse tariff . Not only do the carbon tax make it more difficult for Australian business to compete abroad , it make it more difficult for domestic business to compete at home because there be no carbon tax on import . So Mr Deputy Speaker , repeal the carbon tax remove over 1,000 page of primary and subordinate legislation . Repealing the carbon tax cut the size of the climate change bureaucracy . So , repeal the carbon tax will reduce the cost of living , make job more secure and improve the competitive position of our country . Thats what it do : it reduce the cost of living , it make job more secure and it improve the competitive position of our country . Now why would anyone be against that , particularly when it what the Australian people have vote for ? Mr Speaker , repeal the carbon tax be what the employer and what the job provider of our country want now . The Business Council of Australia for instance support the wind-up of the current carbon pricing mechanism because it place excessive cost on business and household and because ( our ) carbon chargeis now one of the high in the world ; thats what the BCA say about the carbon tax . The carbon tax have rip through the economy , hit school , hit hospital , nurse home , charity , church , council swim pool and community centre . It have hit each and every group and each and every individual that us power and that be always it goal : to make electricity more expensive . That be the intention of the previous government , to put power price up because that be their way of reduce emission . The intention of the new Government , of this Government , be to put power price down by axing this toxic tax and by use other mean to reduce emission . By reducing the cost of electricity and gas , we will help to make household good off , worker more secure and our economy strong . Now Mr Deputy Speaker , no one should be in any doubt the Government be repeal the carbon tax in full , we be repeal the carbon tax in full . We be do what we be elect to do . Others have say that they would terminate the carbon tax , but they be only rename it . Well , Mr Speaker , we be not rename it . We be abolish the carbon tax in full . Repealing the carbon tax at the end of the financial year provide certainty for business and it simplify the transition . It mean that the Government will not be proceed with the previous government legislate carbon tax increase that would have take effect from the 1 July . Now Mr Deputy Speaker , unfortunately , the new Government can not undo the past , we can only make the future better and that be precisely what we intend to do . Under this Government , the carbon tax will not apply from the 1st of July so there will be no need for further compensation package . We will end the merry-go-round of carbon tax industry assistance that take from one pocket and put less back in the other . We will ensure that the benefit of repeal the carbon tax be pass on to consumer . The ACCC will have further power to take action against any business that engage in price exploitation in relation to the carbon tax repeal . There will be penalty of up to $ 1.1 million for corporation and $ 220,000 for individual . Mr Deputy Speaker , it be prudent to do what we reasonably can to reduce carbon emission . But we dont believe in ostracising any particular fuel and we dont believe in harming economic growth . Climate change be a serious issue and we do have strong policy to come into place so that we rest lightly on the planet . The Government be repeal the carbon tax because there be a less complicated and less costly way to reduce greenhouse gas emission a way that will actually reduce emission and wont damage the economy . So , well scrap the carbon tax and then proceed with our Direct Action Plan . The centrepiece of this Direct Action Plan will be the Emissions Reduction Fund a market-based mechanism for reducing carbon dioxide emission ; a fund which provide a powerful and direct additional incentive for business to reduce their greenhouse gas emission . The $ 2.55 billion fund will use positive incentive to reduce Australias emission and it will prioritise cost-effective , target mean to do so . Its an incentive-based approach which will support Australian business and household to low their energy cost at the same time a reduce Australias emission . It will see u plant more tree , get more carbon capture in soil , clean up power station and use smarter technology . We believe , Mr Deputy Speaker , that by the time the five per cent reduction kick in in 2020 well have an overall reduction in our emission of some 22 per cent of 2000 level off a business a usual and this be serious action about a significant problem . Mr Deputy Speaker , the carbon tax be a $ 9 billion hit on our economy this year alone . It be a $ 9 billion hit on job , a $ 9 billion burden on investment and a $ 9 billion burden on Australians that we just dont need . This Bill get rid of it . This Bill , Mr Deputy Speaker , be the Governments Bill to reduce the Australian people bill and so I commend the Bill to the House and I move that this Bill be read a second time . Transcript of Prime Minister Tony Abbotts Melbourne medium conference . ABBOTT : It be very good to be here at Oxford freezer again . This have be one of the many business very badly damage by the carbon tax . Oxford have a $ 4 million a year power bill . They have a $ 60,000 a month carbon tax bill . It be high time that this business and so many business like it right around Australia be liberate from this toxic tax . It be high time that the household of Australia be liberate from this toxic tax . This current Parliament be elect to get rid of the carbon tax . If there be one thing that I say time and time again before the election , it be this change the government and you will lose the carbon tax . Well , the people do change the government . The people do change the senate . I will be reintroduce the carbon tax repeal legislation into the Parliament today . It will be deal with urgently by the new Senate after 1 July and I expect this carbon tax this toxic tax to be go and a business like this will benefit to the tune of $ 60 thousand a month , but perhaps more importantly , every household right around Australia will benefit to the tune of $ 550 a year . So , this be a $ 550 a year windfall to every household in Australia . The only people who dont get that be the Australian Labor Party . The only people in denial about the election result be the Australian Labor Party . The legislation be go back into the Parliament today . It will be deal with by the Senate urgently after the first of July and I expect this toxic tax will be go . QUESTION : Prime Minister , be you confident you have the support of the crossbencher to get rid of the legislation the tax ? ABBOTT : If the Labor Party be fair dinkum , the crossbencher would be unnecessary . Lets not forget that the Labor Party say prior to the election that they be terminate the carbon tax . Having tell the people they be terminate the carbon tax- they have consistently vote in favour of the carbon tax in the Parliament . So really , it be the Labor Party which be hit every household with $ 550 a year in unnecessary expense . As for the crossbencher , every crossbench member of the Senate have state opposition to the carbon tax , which be why I think the public be entitle to be confident that the carbon tax will be go will be go shortly after the first of July . QUESTION : There be a raft of Budget legislation yet to be pass before July 1 what impact will that have on both the federal Budget and household budget ? ABBOTT : We be elect to do a number of thing ; to repeal the carbon , to stop the boat and to get the Budget back under control . The Budget that Joe Hockey bring down just a few week ago doe precisely that . It scale back the debt and deficit disaster to a situation of budget balance in 2017-18 . It cut $ 300 billion almost off project peak debt . We have bring down our answer to Labors debt and deficit disaster . The challenge now be for the Labor Party to tell u what their answer be to the debt and deficit disaster that they create . QUESTION : Journalist Peter Grestes verdict should be hand down today . I understand you have have a conversation with the Egyptian Prime Minister . What be you hop to achieve , what do you think you can achieve for Peter Greste ? ABBOTT : I do have a conversation with President El Sisi over the weekend . President El Sisi be determine to do whatever he can to restore peace and security to Egypt and I commend him on that . I do make point that a an Australian journalist , Peter Greste would not have be support the Muslim Brotherhood , he would have simply be report on the Muslim Brotherhood . The point I make be in the long run a free and vigorous medium be good for democracy , be good for security , and be good for stability . QUESTION : How critical be it that he be release ? ABBOTT : In the end it be up to the Egyptian justice system to do it job . I do my best to put it to the President that a an Australian journalist , Peter Greste would not have be take side . He would have simply be report on the event that he saw before him . He certainly wouldve have no interest in promoting the Muslim Brotherhood . He simply would have be provide his viewer with what he think be the story of the day because thats what Australian journalist do . QUESTION : Is there an extradition treaty in place with Egypt with any possibility of have him extradite if he be jail ? ABBOTT : Thats a fair question but Im afraid I dont have an answer for you . QUESTION : On another matter , be you consider broaden ASIOs surveillance power ? If so what safeguard would be there to protect normal Australians at home on their computer ? ABBOTT : The best thing we can do for Australians at home be to ensure that jihadis do not come back to this country . We will do everything we humanly can to stop jihadist terrorist come into this country and if they do return to this country , we will do everything we reasonably can to ensure that they be not move amongst the Australian community . I want to make it absolutely crystal clear that this be a Government which believe in border security we have demonstrate not just that we believe in border security , but we be effective in establishing border security . We have for the last six month stop illegal boat arrive in Australia and we be determine to be just a tough in stopping jihadist arrive in Australia . Weve stop the illegal boat , we will ensure that we stop the jihadist a well because the last thing we want be people who have be radicalised and militarise by experience with these al-Qaeda offshoot in the Middle East the last thing we want be these people who have be radicalised and militarise return to create mischief here in Australia . QUESTION : Do we need to revisit the debate on metadata or data retention ? Its something Nicola Roxon try to do be it important for safeguarding Australia , keep Australia safe ? ABBOTT : Its important to ensure that our police and our security service have the mean at their disposal to ensure that our community be safe . The safety of our community be the paramount concern of this Government . I want to repeat that- the safety of our community be the paramount concern of this Government and we will do whatever be reasonably necessary to secure the safety of our community . QUESTION : On another topic , do you think the Greens will support your pay parental leave scheme ? ABBOTT : The pay parental leave scheme that the Coalition will be in due course bring before the Parliament be the same paid parental leave scheme that we take to the 2010 election and to the 2013 election . We have a definite mandate to bring this scheme in . Lets not forget that this scheme be design to ensure that pay parental leave be not a welfare entitlement but a workplace entitlement . It be design to ensure that people throughout Australia get access to the same kind of pay parental leave right that public servant have long have . If it right and proper for public servant on pay parental leave , staff at the ABC on pay parental leave to be pay at their real wage , well then it right and proper for people in the small and medium size business in the suburb and regional town and country centre of Australia to get pay at their real wage when theyre on pay parental leave . I see this a a matter of fundamental fairness , of fundamental justice . I see this a a matter , not just of social progress but of economic progress a well . This be an economic reform a well a an important measure of fairness for family . Thank you . Filed Under : Abbott , Audio , Climate Change , Legislation , Video Tagged With : carbon tax , Oxford Freezers , Tony Abbott Search AustralianPolitics.com Connections Related post Dec 08 , 2013 Abbott Pressures Parliament To Repeal Taxes By Christmas Nov 21 , 2013 Carbon Tax Repeal Bills Passed By House Of Representatives Oct 15 , 2013 Abbott And Hunt Release Carbon Tax Repeal Legislation Jul 17 , 2014 Carbon Tax Abolished ; Senate Crossbenchers Back Government Dec 31 , 2012 Tony Abbotts New Year Message Jul 10 , 2014 Carbon Tax Repeal Bill Defeated In Senate As Palmer Squabbles With Government Over Amendments Jul 14 , 2014 Carbon Tax Repeal Bills Pass House For Third Time With Palmer Amendments Oct 26 , 2013 Carbon Tax Was Socialism Masquerading As Environmentalism , Abbott Tells Tasmanian Liberals Jul 08 , 2014 Palmer Party Senate Leader Glenn Lazarus Heckled During First Speech On Repealing Carbon Tax Nov 08 , 2013 Abbott Government Outlines Legislative Program For First Parliamentary Sittings Try A Tag Peter Costello John McCain Glenn Stevens Robert Hill Kim Beazley Reserve Bank ETS terrorism Malcolm Turnbull Penny Wong George Brandis John Hewson Joe Hockey Steve Bracks Eric Abetz Scott Morrison Clive Palmer Alexander Downer Mark Latham maiden speech Jenny Macklin Liberal Party MH17 Afghanistan Bob Hawke Pauline Hanson Wayne Swan Governor-General AEC carbon tax GST Bill Clinton first speech Anthony Albanese Budget Christine Milne financial crisis Jeff Kennett Peter Beattie Chris Bowen James Ashby Barack Obama National Press Club minority government Gough Whitlam HSU Peter Slipper NPC Senate Bill Shorten Paul Keating Kevin Rudd Christopher Pyne Julie Bishop Laurie Oakes Julia Gillard Denis Napthine Iraq Christmas Mitt Romney John Howard Adam Bandt Brendan Nelson Campbell Newman Anna Bligh Bob Brown Craig Thomson Simon Crean climate change leadership 9/11 A.L.P . 2013 Federal Election Robert Menzies Malcolm Fraser asylum seeker George W Bush Quentin Bryce interest rate Tony Abbott Recent Posts Reserve Bank Cuts Interest Rates By 0.25 % Barack Obama Highlights Climate Change In Speech At University Of Queensland Tony Abbotts Remarks At G20 Leaders Retreat Abbott , Pragmatic Nationalist , Proposes Modest Reform Of Federation Widodo Inauguration : Abbott Stresses Jakarta Focus In Foreign Policy Cormann Says Shorten Is An Economic Girlie Man Government Announces Industry Innovation And Competitiveness Agenda Hockey Talks Of Economic Reform In Speech To London Institute We Shirtfront The Tsar ; Abbott Says He Will Confront Putin Over MH17 At G20 Kate Ellis Accuses Christopher Pyne Of Distraction Tactics Over Curriculum Review Gillard Government My Story : Julia Gillards Book Launched By Quentin Bryce Julia Gillards Interview With Ray Martin Julia Gillard Testifies At Trade Union Royal Commission The Good Fight : Wayne Swan Launches Memoirs Of The Rudd-Gillard Years Greg Combet Says Julia Gillard Offered To Stand Aside For Him ALP Releases 2013 Election Campaign Review Julia Gillard Discusses Education On Al Jazeera Victory For James Ashby As Federal Court Overturns Peter Slipper Harassment Decision Rudd Redux : Victory And Defeat Julia Gillards Interview With CNNs Christiane Amanpour Occasional Opinion Jingoistic , Xenophobic , Protectionist : Bill Shortens March To The Fringe In Speech To Submarine Workers The Result Of Clive Palmers Al Gore Stunt : Carbon Tax Abolished , ETS Dead The Malcolm Mackerras Six And The Question Of How To Define A Landslide The New Senate Numbers And The Abbott Government Of Votes And Bodies : The Labor Partys Election Defeat Its Over : Defeat Looms For The Rudd Government Alternative Universes And The PNG Solution Where Are The Seats Rudd Needs To Win ? Woof Woof ! 2013 Federal Election : How abbott submits carbon tax repeal bill to house for third time | australianpolitics.com home about contact audio whitlam dismissal word opinion u.s.a . constitution u.k . list australianpolitics.com democracy key term convention pressure group constitution full text governor-general high court federalism constitutional reform parliament general information function house of representative senate parliament in action legislation parliamentary committee hansard backbencher first / maiden speech opposition question time double dissolution speaker & other people parliamentary reform executive cabinet & ministry public service prime minister - tony abbott - kevin rudd - julia gillard - john howard - paul keating - bob hawke - malcolm fraser - gough whitlam party register party australian labor party liberal party the national green australian democrat pauline hansons one nation election electoral system feature & history federal & state election election statistic election cost , funding & donation voting behaviour state new south wale victoria queensland western australia south australia tasmania australian capital territory northern territory local government topic click here for a list of topic & issue foreign policy reform abbott submits carbon tax repeal bill to house of representative for third time jun 23 , 2014 facebook 2 twitter 0 google+ 0 linkedin 1 the prime minister , tony abbott , have submit the carbon tax repeal bill to the house of representative for the third time since last year election . the bill be pass by the house last year and reject by the senate in march this year . the new senate have be recall on july 7 to consider the bill again . with budget legislation still stall in the senate , the government concentrate on the carbon tax legislation in question time . in the morning , abbott visit oxford freezer in laverton , melbourne , and talk about the importance of repeal the carbon tax . in his weekly video message on the weekend , abbott also focus on the carbon tax and the delivery of his election commitment . until next monday , the alp and the green have the number in the senate to reject the legislation . from july 1 , the balance of power in the senate shift to the 8 crossbencher , include 3 from the palmer united party , 1 motoring enthusiast party , 1 family first , 1 liberal democrat , 1 democratic labour party and 1 independent . if the alp ( 25 ) and the green ( 10 ) be oppose , the government need 6 of the 8 crossbencher to pass legislation . if 3 crossbencher join with the alp and green , the government can be obstruct . the repeal of the carbon tax be likely to be achieve with the support of a majority of the crossbencher , include the palmer united party senator and senato-elect ricky muir . listen to abbotts laverton medium conference ( 9m ) audio clip : adobe flash player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . download the late version here . you also need to have javascript enable in your browser . listen to abbotts second reading speech ( 12m transcript below ) audio clip : adobe flash player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . download the late version here . you also need to have javascript enable in your browser . watch abbotts speech ( 12m ) listen to abbotts medium conference ( 9m ) audio clip : adobe flash player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . download the late version here . you also need to have javascript enable in your browser . listen to question time ( 84m ) audio clip : adobe flash player ( version 9 or above ) be require to play this audio clip . download the late version here . you also need to have javascript enable in your browser . watch question time ( 85m ) watch abbotts weekend video message ( 2m ) statement from prime minister tony abbott . today i re-introduced the carbon tax repeal bill into parliament . we be do this because of our commitment to take real action to help family deal with cost of living pressure . scrap the carbon tax will save the average family $ 550 a year . it will also remove a $ 9 billion hit on the economy . this will help create job . the carbon tax could have be scrap by now but labor and the green continue to oppose our attempt to do so . on 1 july , the new senate take office and it should immediately help family and small business by deal with this matter urgently . scrap the carbon tax be part of the government economic action strategy to build a strong , prosperous economy for a safe , secure australia . prime minister tony abbotts second reading speech to the house of representative on the clean energy legislation ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 . thanks mr deputy speaker . i present the clean energy legislation ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no . 2 and the explanatory memorandum to this bill and the true-up shortfall levy ( general ) ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no . 2 , the true-up shortfall levy ( excise ) ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 no.2 , the custom tariff amendment ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no.2 , the excise tariff amendment ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no.2 , the ozone protection and synthetic greenhouse gas ( import levy ) amendment ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no . 2 and the ozone protection and synthetic greenhouse gas ( manufacture levy ) amendment ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 , no.2 . thanks so much mr deputy speaker , today the government reintroduces the clean energy legislation ( carbon tax repeal ) bill 2013 . a i say back in november of last year when i introduce this bill for the first time , the australian people have already vote on this bill and now the parliament again get it chance . the people have speak and now , it up to this parliament to show that it listen . the australian people pronounce their judgment against the carbon tax : they want it gone and this bill delivers . it deliver on the coalition commitment to the australian people to scrap this toxic tax . so mr deputy speaker , the budget that the government deliver recently be tough but it be visionary . it be about set this country on a path to long-term structural change . but , a cornerstone of this government plan for a strong economy , for low tax , for less regulation and for strong business , be the repeal of the carbon tax . the first impact of this bill will be on household whose overall cost will fall by about $ 550 a year on average . because of this bill , household electricity bill will be around $ 200 low next financial year without the carbon tax . household gas bill will be about $ 70 low next financial year without the carbon tax . price for grocery , for household item and for service will also fall because the price of power be embed in every price in our economy . this be a bill to reduce the bill of the australian people thats what it be it a bill to reduce the bill of the people of australia . when the price of power come down , the australian competition and consumer commission will be ready to ensure that these price reduction be pass on to household and to business . but and this be important mr deputy speaker family and pensioner will keep the tax cut and the benefit increase already provide . the carbon tax will go , but the carbon tax compensation will stay so that every australian should be good off . repeal the carbon tax will reduce cost for all australian business , for every single one of them . now the previous government say and argue that only big business pay the carbon tax but this simply wasnt true . every small business pay the carbon tax through high electricity and gas bill and high cost for supply . a well , mr deputy speaker , the carbon tax act a a reverse tariff . not only do the carbon tax make it more difficult for australian business to compete abroad , it make it more difficult for domestic business to compete at home because there be no carbon tax on import . so mr deputy speaker , repeal the carbon tax remove over 1,000 page of primary and subordinate legislation . repeal the carbon tax cut the size of the climate change bureaucracy . so , repeal the carbon tax will reduce the cost of living , make job more secure and improve the competitive position of our country . thats what it do : it reduce the cost of living , it make job more secure and it improve the competitive position of our country . now why would anyone be against that , particularly when it what the australian people have vote for ? mr speaker , repeal the carbon tax be what the employer and what the job provider of our country want now . the business council of australia for instance support the wind-up of the current carbon pricing mechanism because it place excessive cost on business and household and because ( our ) carbon chargeis now one of the high in the world ; thats what the bca say about the carbon tax . the carbon tax have rip through the economy , hit school , hit hospital , nurse home , charity , church , council swim pool and community centre . it have hit each and every group and each and every individual that us power and that be always it goal : to make electricity more expensive . that be the intention of the previous government , to put power price up because that be their way of reduce emission . the intention of the new government , of this government , be to put power price down by axing this toxic tax and by use other mean to reduce emission . by reducing the cost of electricity and gas , we will help to make household good off , worker more secure and our economy strong . now mr deputy speaker , no one should be in any doubt the government be repeal the carbon tax in full , we be repeal the carbon tax in full . we be do what we be elect to do . others have say that they would terminate the carbon tax , but they be only rename it . well , mr speaker , we be not rename it . we be abolish the carbon tax in full . repeal the carbon tax at the end of the financial year provide certainty for business and it simplify the transition . it mean that the government will not be proceed with the previous government legislate carbon tax increase that would have take effect from the 1 july . now mr deputy speaker , unfortunately , the new government can not undo the past , we can only make the future better and that be precisely what we intend to do . under this government , the carbon tax will not apply from the 1st of july so there will be no need for further compensation package . we will end the merry-go-round of carbon tax industry assistance that take from one pocket and put less back in the other . we will ensure that the benefit of repeal the carbon tax be pass on to consumer . the accc will have further power to take action against any business that engage in price exploitation in relation to the carbon tax repeal . there will be penalty of up to $ 1.1 million for corporation and $ 220,000 for individual . mr deputy speaker , it be prudent to do what we reasonably can to reduce carbon emission . but we dont believe in ostracising any particular fuel and we dont believe in harming economic growth . climate change be a serious issue and we do have strong policy to come into place so that we rest lightly on the planet . the government be repeal the carbon tax because there be a less complicated and less costly way to reduce greenhouse gas emission a way that will actually reduce emission and wont damage the economy . so , well scrap the carbon tax and then proceed with our direct action plan . the centrepiece of this direct action plan will be the emission reduction fund a market-based mechanism for reducing carbon dioxide emission ; a fund which provide a powerful and direct additional incentive for business to reduce their greenhouse gas emission . the $ 2.55 billion fund will use positive incentive to reduce australia emission and it will prioritise cost-effective , target mean to do so . it an incentive-based approach which will support australian business and household to low their energy cost at the same time a reduce australia emission . it will see u plant more tree , get more carbon capture in soil , clean up power station and use smarter technology . we believe , mr deputy speaker , that by the time the five per cent reduction kick in in 2020 well have an overall reduction in our emission of some 22 per cent of 2000 level off a business a usual and this be serious action about a significant problem . mr deputy speaker , the carbon tax be a $ 9 billion hit on our economy this year alone . it be a $ 9 billion hit on job , a $ 9 billion burden on investment and a $ 9 billion burden on australian that we just dont need . this bill get rid of it . this bill , mr deputy speaker , be the government bill to reduce the australian people bill and so i commend the bill to the house and i move that this bill be read a second time . transcript of prime minister tony abbotts melbourne medium conference . abbott : it be very good to be here at oxford freezer again . this have be one of the many business very badly damage by the carbon tax . oxford have a $ 4 million a year power bill . they have a $ 60,000 a month carbon tax bill . it be high time that this business and so many business like it right around australia be liberate from this toxic tax . it be high time that the household of australia be liberate from this toxic tax . this current parliament be elect to get rid of the carbon tax . if there be one thing that i say time and time again before the election , it be this change the government and you will lose the carbon tax . well , the people do change the government . the people do change the senate . i will be reintroduce the carbon tax repeal legislation into the parliament today . it will be deal with urgently by the new senate after 1 july and i expect this carbon tax this toxic tax to be go and a business like this will benefit to the tune of $ 60 thousand a month , but perhaps more importantly , every household right around australia will benefit to the tune of $ 550 a year . so , this be a $ 550 a year windfall to every household in australia . the only people who dont get that be the australian labor party . the only people in denial about the election result be the australian labor party . the legislation be go back into the parliament today . it will be deal with by the senate urgently after the first of july and i expect this toxic tax will be go . question : prime minister , be you confident you have the support of the crossbencher to get rid of the legislation the tax ? abbott : if the labor party be fair dinkum , the crossbencher would be unnecessary . let not forget that the labor party say prior to the election that they be terminate the carbon tax . having tell the people they be terminate the carbon tax- they have consistently vote in favour of the carbon tax in the parliament . so really , it be the labor party which be hit every household with $ 550 a year in unnecessary expense . a for the crossbencher , every crossbench member of the senate have state opposition to the carbon tax , which be why i think the public be entitle to be confident that the carbon tax will be go will be go shortly after the first of july . question : there be a raft of budget legislation yet to be pass before july 1 what impact will that have on both the federal budget and household budget ? abbott : we be elect to do a number of thing ; to repeal the carbon , to stop the boat and to get the budget back under control . the budget that joe hockey bring down just a few week ago doe precisely that . it scale back the debt and deficit disaster to a situation of budget balance in 2017-18 . it cut $ 300 billion almost off project peak debt . we have bring down our answer to labor debt and deficit disaster . the challenge now be for the labor party to tell u what their answer be to the debt and deficit disaster that they create . question : journalist peter grestes verdict should be hand down today . i understand you have have a conversation with the egyptian prime minister . what be you hop to achieve , what do you think you can achieve for peter greste ? abbott : i do have a conversation with president el sisi over the weekend . president el sisi be determine to do whatever he can to restore peace and security to egypt and i commend him on that . i do make point that a an australian journalist , peter greste would not have be support the muslim brotherhood , he would have simply be report on the muslim brotherhood . the point i make be in the long run a free and vigorous medium be good for democracy , be good for security , and be good for stability . question : how critical be it that he be release ? abbott : in the end it be up to the egyptian justice system to do it job . i do my best to put it to the president that a an australian journalist , peter greste would not have be take side . he would have simply be report on the event that he saw before him . he certainly wouldve have no interest in promoting the muslim brotherhood . he simply would have be provide his viewer with what he think be the story of the day because thats what australian journalist do . question : be there an extradition treaty in place with egypt with any possibility of have him extradite if he be jail ? abbott : thats a fair question but im afraid i dont have an answer for you . question : on another matter , be you consider broaden asio surveillance power ? if so what safeguard would be there to protect normal australian at home on their computer ? abbott : the best thing we can do for australian at home be to ensure that jihadis do not come back to this country . we will do everything we humanly can to stop jihadist terrorist come into this country and if they do return to this country , we will do everything we reasonably can to ensure that they be not move amongst the australian community . i want to make it absolutely crystal clear that this be a government which believe in border security we have demonstrate not just that we believe in border security , but we be effective in establishing border security . we have for the last six month stop illegal boat arrive in australia and we be determine to be just a tough in stopping jihadist arrive in australia . weve stop the illegal boat , we will ensure that we stop the jihadist a well because the last thing we want be people who have be radicalised and militarise by experience with these al-qaeda offshoot in the middle east the last thing we want be these people who have be radicalised and militarise return to create mischief here in australia . question : do we need to revisit the debate on metadata or data retention ? it something nicola roxon try to do be it important for safeguarding australia , keep australia safe ? abbott : it important to ensure that our police and our security service have the mean at their disposal to ensure that our community be safe . the safety of our community be the paramount concern of this government . i want to repeat that- the safety of our community be the paramount concern of this government and we will do whatever be reasonably necessary to secure the safety of our community . question : on another topic , do you think the green will support your pay parental leave scheme ? abbott : the pay parental leave scheme that the coalition will be in due course bring before the parliament be the same paid parental leave scheme that we take to the 2010 election and to the 2013 election . we have a definite mandate to bring this scheme in . let not forget that this scheme be design to ensure that pay parental leave be not a welfare entitlement but a workplace entitlement . it be design to ensure that people throughout australia get access to the same kind of pay parental leave right that public servant have long have . if it right and proper for public servant on pay parental leave , staff at the abc on pay parental leave to be pay at their real wage , well then it right and proper for people in the small and medium size business in the suburb and regional town and country centre of australia to get pay at their real wage when theyre on pay parental leave . i see this a a matter of fundamental fairness , of fundamental justice . i see this a a matter , not just of social progress but of economic progress a well . this be an economic reform a well a an important measure of fairness for family . thank you . filed under : abbott , audio , climate change , legislation , video tagged with : carbon tax , oxford freezer , tony abbott search australianpolitics.com connection related post dec 08 , 2013 abbott pressure parliament to repeal tax by christmas nov 21 , 2013 carbon tax repeal bill passed by house of representative oct 15 , 2013 abbott and hunt release carbon tax repeal legislation jul 17 , 2014 carbon tax abolished ; senate crossbencher back government dec 31 , 2012 tony abbotts new year message jul 10 , 2014 carbon tax repeal bill defeated in senate a palmer squabble with government over amendment jul 14 , 2014 carbon tax repeal bill pas house for third time with palmer amendment oct 26 , 2013 carbon tax wa socialism masquerading a environmentalism , abbott tell tasmanian liberal jul 08 , 2014 palmer party senate leader glenn lazarus heckled during first speech on repealing carbon tax nov 08 , 2013 abbott government outline legislative program for first parliamentary sitting try a tag peter costello john mccain glenn stevens robert hill kim beazley reserve bank ets terrorism malcolm turnbull penny wong george brandis john hewson joe hockey steve bracks eric abetz scott morrison clive palmer alexander downer mark latham maiden speech jenny macklin liberal party mh17 afghanistan bob hawke pauline hanson wayne swan governor-general aec carbon tax gst bill clinton first speech anthony albanese budget christine milne financial crisis jeff kennett peter beattie chris bowen james ashby barack obama national press club minority government gough whitlam hsu peter slipper npc senate bill shorten paul keating kevin rudd christopher pyne julie bishop laurie oakes julia gillard denis napthine iraq christmas mitt romney john howard adam bandt brendan nelson campbell newman anna bligh bob brown craig thomson simon crean climate change leadership 9/11 a.l.p . 2013 federal election robert menzies malcolm fraser asylum seeker george w bush quentin bryce interest rate tony abbott recent post reserve bank cut interest rate by 0.25 % barack obama highlight climate change in speech at university of queensland tony abbotts remark at g20 leader retreat abbott , pragmatic nationalist , proposes modest reform of federation widodo inauguration : abbott stress jakarta focus in foreign policy cormann say shorten is an economic girlie man government announces industry innovation and competitiveness agenda hockey talk of economic reform in speech to london institute we shirtfront the tsar ; abbott say he will confront putin over mh17 at g20 kate elli accuses christopher pyne of distraction tactic over curriculum review gillard government my story : julia gillards book launched by quentin bryce julia gillards interview with ray martin julia gillard testifies at trade union royal commission the good fight : wayne swan launch memoir of the rudd-gillard year greg combet say julia gillard offered to stand aside for him alp release 2013 election campaign review julia gillard discus education on al jazeera victory for james ashby a federal court overturn peter slipper harassment decision rudd redux : victory and defeat julia gillards interview with cnns christiane amanpour occasional opinion jingoistic , xenophobic , protectionist : bill shortens march to the fringe in speech to submarine worker the result of clive palmer al gore stunt : carbon tax abolished , ets dead the malcolm mackerras six and the question of how to define a landslide the new senate number and the abbott government of vote and body : the labor party election defeat it over : defeat loom for the rudd government alternative universe and the png solution where be the seat rudd need to win ? woof woof ! 2013 federal election : how 