7 Ways to Lower Your Utility Bill | Military.com Military.com 7 Ways to Lower Your Utility Bill Not a member ? Join now for FREE Login Jobs Search Units Search Buddy Finder Search News Search Home Search Home Benefits News Off Duty Join the Military Education Veteran Jobs Money VA Loans Home Ownership Insurance Relocation / PCS / Moving Retirement Personal Finance Ask Scott & JJ Paycheck Chronicles Discounts Spouse Community Video Money Home Ownership Home Maintenance 7 Ways to Lower Your Utility Bill Ethan Ewing The average American home will spend $ 990 on heating this year , accord to the Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) . Add that to the rise cost of food , clothing , and travel , and almost every individual and family will feel the pinch . Fortunately , you can make your utility bill more manageable . Many step to reduce your bill apply to everyone , even those live in barrack . And even if your utility be currently pay a part of your rent , pay attention : By 2010 , only 10 percent of military personnel will live in government-owned residence , and many private or service-owned residence require resident to pay their own utility bill , report the EIA . 1 ) Turn down the heat . Much a we love a cozy home , lower the thermostat will instantly low your bill . The EIA say project that for every degree you low your heat , you can cut your heating cost by as much a 5 percent . At night , or when you be away , low the temperature a far a possible while protecting your health and the safety of your pipe . Bundle up with a throw on the sofa , get some warm slipper , and wear a sweater or fleece . If necessary , stay cozy at night with an electric blanket , which us less energy than heating the entire home or apartment . 2 ) Program the temperature . Make furnace setting automatic by installing a programmable thermostat . These device cost about $ 40 and be simple to install . 3 ) Replace light bulb . Replace traditional incandescent bulb with compact fluorescent light ( CFLs ) to save about 50 watt per light bulb and make a significant difference on utility bill . They do cost more to purchase , but they pay off over the life of the bulb . If you move frequently , you might want to keep the old bulb to leave behind in the fixture while take your investment in bulb with you . 4 ) Cut laundry cost . Wash clothe in cold water -- they will last longer and still get clean while saving energy . Hang clothe to dry , either outside or on a line in a garage , bathroom or spare room . If you do use the clothes dryer , try to use an Energy Star certify model , and be sure to clean the lint filter before every use to maximize air circulation . 5 ) Insulate . Carefully inspect your home for drafty spot where cold air can enter . The most common culprit be door and windows . Install weather strip and door sweep to block draft . Add old-fashioned `` draft dodger '' for a quick fix at exterior door . Other common area for air leak be lock , outlet , air condition unit and recess light fixture . Cover outside vent , include air condition unit . If possible , install insulate electrical outlet box and light fixture . The Energy Star program offer a free guide to home insulation at http : //www.energystar.gov/index.cfm ? c=diy.diy_index . 6 ) Use the sun . The sun be a great source of natural energy . Taking small step such a open the drape to let the sun 's warmth in during the day , and closing them -- or install insulate drape -- to keep heat in at night will make substantial difference in your heating bill . Leave light off if sunlight provide enough light by which to read , shower , cook or eat . 7 ) Choose budget bill . Consider contacting your utility provider to ask about bill a set amount each month . Called `` budget billing '' by some utility , the company average your annual utility bill and bill one-twelfth of the amount each month . Bills usually will be slightly low in the winter and summer and slightly high in the spring and fall . Most importantly , the bill will be a predictable amount each month to simplify budget plan . ( Those in Service-provided housing might already have this feature on their bill . ) If you find you ca n't pay your utility bill , get help . Many state offer program to help people keep the utility on when they have trouble pay the bill . Contact your utility company to learn about it plan , and be sure to mention that you be a military family . For instance , Ohio 's Patriot Plan be base on a law that state that utility ca n't be disconnect for nonpayment for any military reservist or National Guardsman deploy on active duty . In an emergency , organization such a the Salvation Army might be able to help . These action share one common feature : The No . 1 action you can take to rein in your utility bill be to pay attention to the energy you use , and try to use only what you need . When you use utility carefully , you 'll be able to reduce your bill , while still enjoy the comfort of your home , while you 're in the Service and beyond . For more money-saving tip , visitMilitary.com's Finance channel . More on this Topic Energy-Efficiency and Money Saving Tips Protecting Your Home During Long Deployments Home Maintenance Tips BofA to Cut Interest for Some Military Home Maintenance Tips for the Fall Finance Top Stories Do n't Even Think About Debt Consolidation Until You Do This First 5 Money Moves to Power You Through 2015 What Is the Debt Snowball ? Be Young , Be Happy , But Be Smart Residence Vs. Home of Record How to Avoid Financial Scams Connect Get the Money Matters Sign-up Newsletter Contributor About Recent Articles About Ethan Ewing be a veteranconsumer financial service and online marketingexecutive . He manage all aspect of Bills.com , a lead consumer finance website that provide practical financial advice and free financial tool and resource . Ethan be a drive force behind Bills.coms growth . He have hold leadership position at two Experian company and build a lead generation business for Ameriquest Mortgage.He hold a BA from Denison University . Recent Articles Financial Tips for PCSing Benefits of a VA Loan in Today 's Market Top Tax Tips for Military Personnel How to Protect Yourself From Predatory Lenders How to Manage Rising Home and Mortgage Prices Home Maintenance Popular Articles 3 Tips to Use Home Equity Loans the Right Way When Your Home Value be Upside-Down BofA to Cut Interest for Some Military Reducing the Risk of Fire in Your Home 7 Ways to Lower Your Utility Bill More Home Maintenance Content Paycheck Chronicles Find Your Motivation To Change This week , I read a couple of blog post that all sort of revolve around a central theme , but I couldnt put my finger on it . Today , it all come together . The brilliant thought that I have be try to capture be this : no one make a change until something trigger a particular motivation to [ ] Read More Buying a Home Selling Your Home Home Maintenance Home Maintenance Archives Rental Property Renting a House Resources Find a VA Lender VA Loan Guide Military Pay Charts Find Supplemental Life Insurance Military Discounts Select Service My Membership Edit USA USMC USN USAF USCG NG/RES Spouse Member ? Login My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters My Profile My News My Community My Messages My Newsletters Military.com Network : Defense Tech DoD Buzz SpouseBuzz Services : Army Marine Corps Navy Air Force Coast Guard National Guard About Military.com : About Us & Press Room Advertise With Us RSS Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Mobile Site Map 2015 Military Advantage AdChoices 7 way to lower your utility bill | military.com military.com 7 way to lower your utility bill not a member ? join now for free login job search unit search buddy finder search news search home search home benefit news off duty join the military education veteran job money va loan home ownership insurance relocation / pc / move retirement personal finance ask scott & jj paycheck chronicle discount spouse community video money home ownership home maintenance 7 way to lower your utility bill ethan ewing the average american home will spend $ 990 on heating this year , accord to the energy information administration ( eia ) . add that to the rise cost of food , clothing , and travel , and almost every individual and family will feel the pinch . fortunately , you can make your utility bill more manageable . many step to reduce your bill apply to everyone , even those live in barrack . and even if your utility be currently pay a part of your rent , pay attention : by 2010 , only 10 percent of military personnel will live in government-owned residence , and many private or service-owned residence require resident to pay their own utility bill , report the eia . 1 ) turn down the heat . much a we love a cozy home , lower the thermostat will instantly low your bill . the eia say project that for every degree you low your heat , you can cut your heating cost by as much a 5 percent . at night , or when you be away , low the temperature a far a possible while protecting your health and the safety of your pipe . bundle up with a throw on the sofa , get some warm slipper , and wear a sweater or fleece . if necessary , stay cozy at night with an electric blanket , which us less energy than heating the entire home or apartment . 2 ) program the temperature . make furnace setting automatic by installing a programmable thermostat . these device cost about $ 40 and be simple to install . 3 ) replace light bulb . replace traditional incandescent bulb with compact fluorescent light ( cfls ) to save about 50 watt per light bulb and make a significant difference on utility bill . they do cost more to purchase , but they pay off over the life of the bulb . if you move frequently , you might want to keep the old bulb to leave behind in the fixture while take your investment in bulb with you . 4 ) cut laundry cost . wash clothe in cold water -- they will last longer and still get clean while saving energy . hang clothe to dry , either outside or on a line in a garage , bathroom or spare room . if you do use the clothes dryer , try to use an energy star certify model , and be sure to clean the lint filter before every use to maximize air circulation . 5 ) insulate . carefully inspect your home for drafty spot where cold air can enter . the most common culprit be door and windows . install weather strip and door sweep to block draft . add old-fashioned `` draft dodger '' for a quick fix at exterior door . other common area for air leak be lock , outlet , air condition unit and recess light fixture . cover outside vent , include air condition unit . if possible , install insulate electrical outlet box and light fixture . the energy star program offer a free guide to home insulation at http : //www.energystar.gov/index.cfm ? c=diy.diy_index . 6 ) use the sun . the sun be a great source of natural energy . taking small step such a open the drape to let the sun 's warmth in during the day , and closing them -- or install insulate drape -- to keep heat in at night will make substantial difference in your heating bill . leave light off if sunlight provide enough light by which to read , shower , cook or eat . 7 ) choose budget bill . consider contacting your utility provider to ask about bill a set amount each month . called `` budget billing '' by some utility , the company average your annual utility bill and bill one-twelfth of the amount each month . bill usually will be slightly low in the winter and summer and slightly high in the spring and fall . most importantly , the bill will be a predictable amount each month to simplify budget plan . ( those in service-provided housing might already have this feature on their bill . ) if you find you ca n't pay your utility bill , get help . many state offer program to help people keep the utility on when they have trouble pay the bill . contact your utility company to learn about it plan , and be sure to mention that you be a military family . for instance , ohio 's patriot plan be base on a law that state that utility ca n't be disconnect for nonpayment for any military reservist or national guardsman deploy on active duty . in an emergency , organization such a the salvation army might be able to help . these action share one common feature : the no . 1 action you can take to rein in your utility bill be to pay attention to the energy you use , and try to use only what you need . when you use utility carefully , you 'll be able to reduce your bill , while still enjoy the comfort of your home , while you 're in the service and beyond . for more money-saving tip , visitmilitary.com's finance channel . more on this topic energy-efficiency and money saving tip protect your home during long deployment home maintenance tip bofa to cut interest for some military home maintenance tip for the fall finance top story do n't even think about debt consolidation until you do this first 5 money move to power you through 2015 what be the debt snowball ? be young , be happy , but be smart residence vs. home of record how to avoid financial scam connect get the money matter sign-up newsletter contributor about recent article about ethan ewing be a veteranconsumer financial service and online marketingexecutive . he manage all aspect of bills.com , a lead consumer finance website that provide practical financial advice and free financial tool and resource . ethan be a drive force behind bills.coms growth . he have hold leadership position at two experian company and build a lead generation business for ameriquest mortgage.he hold a ba from denison university . recent article financial tip for pcsing benefit of a va loan in today 's market top tax tip for military personnel how to protect yourself from predatory lender how to manage rising home and mortgage price home maintenance popular article 3 tip to use home equity loan the right way when your home value be upside-down bofa to cut interest for some military reduce the risk of fire in your home 7 way to lower your utility bill more home maintenance content paycheck chronicle find your motivation to change this week , i read a couple of blog post that all sort of revolve around a central theme , but i couldnt put my finger on it . today , it all come together . the brilliant thought that i have be try to capture be this : no one make a change until something trigger a particular motivation to [ ] read more buy a home sell your home home maintenance home maintenance archive rental property rent a house resource find a va lender va loan guide military pay chart find supplemental life insurance military discount select service my membership edit usa usmc usn usaf uscg ng/res spouse member ? login my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter my profile my news my community my message my newsletter military.com network : defense tech dod buzz spousebuzz service : army marine corp navy air force coast guard national guard about military.com : about u & press room advertise with u r help user agreement privacy policy mobile site map 2015 military advantage adchoices 