Price Increases - Stop OC Smart Meters google-site-verification=wKUCdb2vUG52kkOWQB1wJ2X8FS2spmZScBWWvph7SdY Home About Smart Meter Facts What be a Smart Meter ? > Zigbee Platform Smart Meter Dangers > Public Health Hazard > What be Electromagnetic Radiation ( EMR ) ? Is Microwave Radiation Harmful ? Thousands of Research Studies U.S. Military Research People Getting Sick Privacy Concerns Safety - Fires and Death Hacking and Cybersecurity > Home Control Takeover Former CIA Director `` ... it 's a really , REALLY , stupid grid . '' Price Increases More Links and Information Choose an Analog Meter Opt Out > Unfair , Over-Priced , and Penalizing Replace Your Own Meter Refuse a Smart Meter Protect Your Analog Meter Action File a CPUC Complaint Contact Your Public Officials Lawsuits Events Take Back Your Power Screenings Smart Meter Presentations CPUC Hearings Protests and Action Festivals and Fairs Public Forums Flyers and Brochures EMR Protection Store RF Meters Compared Blog Donate Contact Us Comments and Feedback Press Stop OC Smart Meters Find u : Price Increases From 2009 to 2011 , SCE customer pay an additional 1.6 % fee to implement the Smart Grid . In addition , now that the Smart Meters be deploy , many Orange County customer experience their bill go up . `` ... Electricity rate would necessarily skyrocket ... '' under a Cap and Trade system admit President Obama . Are Smart Meters part of a large scheme ? When a commodity become scarce it 's price will go up . Smart meter be design to ration and control energy use through a penalizing rate structure ( TOU rate ) and remote kill switch ( Demand Response ) . Charging different rate throughout the day people will change the way they view energy . Will it be consider a luxury to be doled out by Big Utilities ? Proof of Skyrocketing Bills Did your electricity bill go up after a Smart Meter be instal ? Take a look at this customer 's San Diego Gas & Electric bill for 40 month ; 20 before and 20 after an Itron Smart Meter be instal . ( Note : SCE us the same meter . ) Customers complain that not only do their bill go up the amount of electricity use mysteriously have go up as well . Can a 50 % increase be consider a skyrocket ? Want proof ? Below be copy of this customer 's bill . sdge_bill_detail4.pdf File Size : 1027 kb File Type : pdf Download File Analog Vs. `` Smart '' Electromechanical Analog Meter How it Works The old , trusty ( and ugly ) analog meter attach to the side of a house have a series of dial or gauge that move electromagnetically with the home 's electrical usage . It do not use power to operate . There be a starting point and an end point on the manual gauge . Usage be easily calculate a the difference between these two number ... .just like putting mile on a car . In fact , you can watch these dial move and audit your own usage . The movement can be verify by the homeowner to ensure it 's accuracy . Analog Meter Pricing Analog metering system apply a pricing structure base on a 5-tier graduate rate system for that month 's electrical use . The more electricity you use the high tiered rate be apply . For example , currently first-tiered winter rate may start at $ 0.13 per kWh and fifth-tier start at $ 0.31 per kWh . The incentive be for you to use less electricity over the one month period of time . Projected Higher Cost For those customer still own an analog meter , tiered pricing remain . However , we understand that the power company would like to penalize the analog customer by slowly remove the tier on their way down to one rate for all electrical usage . Would this new one rate impose be set at a penalizing level ? Smart Meter How it Works This be the shiny , new digital Smart Meter flash number periodically a it calculate electrical usage . It use your home 's power to operate . It digitally calculate real-time usage then transmit this data wirelessly through the Smart Grid mesh network . Just like your cell phone bill , a Smart Meter accumulate usage digitally and sends you a bill . However , unlike a cell phone bill you can not know where or how the number be calculate . There be no beginning or end gauge to verify your electrical use . Do we just trust this computer ? Is it accurate ? Can the number be verify ? There be no way to know . Smart Meter Pricing Smart Metering calculate electrical usage base on Time Of Use ( TOU ) pricing by applying change hourly rate . For example , since the heavy time for electrical usage take place between the hour of 2pm to 6pm a penalizing high rate will be apply to discourage use during those hour . Lower rate apply in the late evening and extreme early morning . That way you can do your laundry at midnight . Projected Higher Cost As a result to TOU pricing , those that be home during the day will be most effect like senior , retiree , unemployed , those on medical support system , small work-at-home business owner , and parent with small child . Also , low-income and fixed-income household that be unable to shift the time of day that use energy will also see their bill skyrocket . Skyrocketing Complaints Consider Australia where they have be live with Smart Meters since before 2011 . This video be about an Australian family that be be charge 60 % more for power that she be not consume . However , the power company stand their ground and say their Smart Meter be correct . Unlike analog meter where you want watch the dial rotate a the homeowner consume energy Smart Meters be digital computer . Bakersfield bill skyrocket a expose in this Eyewitness News investigative report . Pricing problem with the new Smart Meters be not only in PG & E territory . `` The old meter be defective and that be why your bill have go up . '' `` The gas meter be incorrectly instal and that be why your bill go up . '' AND MORE UTILITY BILLS SKYROCKET ... Skyrocketing Utility Bills after installation United States TV News Video ( 3 minute ) Skyrocketing Utility Bills after installation Canada TV News Video ( 2 minute ) Systemic Smart Meter Billing Errors Over 200 % Uncovered Australia TV News Video ( 7 minute ) Increased Utility Bills , 6,780 Complaints After Smart Meters Installed - CanadaTV News Video ( 2 minute ) CBS TV 5 Investigates Smart Meter Utility Bill Complaints ( 5 minute ) United States ABC TV 7 PG & E acknowledges 10 of thousand of SmartMeter problem ( 3 minute ) price increase - stop oc smart meter google-site-verification=wkucdb2vug52kkowqb1wj2x8fs2spmzscbwwvph7sdy home about smart meter fact what be a smart meter ? > zigbee platform smart meter danger > public health hazard > what be electromagnetic radiation ( emr ) ? be microwave radiation harmful ? thousand of research study u.s. military research people get sick privacy concern safety - fire and death hack and cybersecurity > home control takeover former cia director `` ... it 's a really , really , stupid grid . '' price increase more link and information choose an analog meter opt out > unfair , over-priced , and penalizing replace your own meter refuse a smart meter protect your analog meter action file a cpuc complaint contact your public official lawsuit event take back your power screening smart meter presentation cpuc hearing protest and action festival and fair public forum flyer and brochure emr protection store rf meter compare blog donate contact u comment and feedback press stop oc smart meter find u : price increase from 2009 to 2011 , sce customer pay an additional 1.6 % fee to implement the smart grid . in addition , now that the smart meter be deploy , many orange county customer experience their bill go up . `` ... electricity rate would necessarily skyrocket ... '' under a cap and trade system admit president obama . are smart meter part of a large scheme ? when a commodity become scarce it 's price will go up . smart meter be design to ration and control energy use through a penalizing rate structure ( tou rate ) and remote kill switch ( demand response ) . charging different rate throughout the day people will change the way they view energy . will it be consider a luxury to be doled out by big utility ? proof of skyrocketing bill did your electricity bill go up after a smart meter be instal ? take a look at this customer 's san diego gas & electric bill for 40 month ; 20 before and 20 after an itron smart meter be instal . ( note : sce us the same meter . ) customer complain that not only do their bill go up the amount of electricity use mysteriously have go up as well . can a 50 % increase be consider a skyrocket ? want proof ? below be copy of this customer 's bill . sdge_bill_detail4.pdf file size : 1027 kb file type : pdf download file analog vs. `` smart '' electromechanical analog meter how it work the old , trusty ( and ugly ) analog meter attach to the side of a house have a series of dial or gauge that move electromagnetically with the home 's electrical usage . it do not use power to operate . there be a starting point and an end point on the manual gauge . usage be easily calculate a the difference between these two number ... .just like putting mile on a car . in fact , you can watch these dial move and audit your own usage . the movement can be verify by the homeowner to ensure it 's accuracy . analog meter pricing analog metering system apply a pricing structure base on a 5-tier graduate rate system for that month 's electrical use . the more electricity you use the high tiered rate be apply . for example , currently first-tiered winter rate may start at $ 0.13 per kwh and fifth-tier start at $ 0.31 per kwh . the incentive be for you to use less electricity over the one month period of time . projected higher cost for those customer still own an analog meter , tiered pricing remain . however , we understand that the power company would like to penalize the analog customer by slowly remove the tier on their way down to one rate for all electrical usage . would this new one rate impose be set at a penalizing level ? smart meter how it work this be the shiny , new digital smart meter flash number periodically a it calculate electrical usage . it use your home 's power to operate . it digitally calculate real-time usage then transmit this data wirelessly through the smart grid mesh network . just like your cell phone bill , a smart meter accumulate usage digitally and sends you a bill . however , unlike a cell phone bill you can not know where or how the number be calculate . there be no beginning or end gauge to verify your electrical use . do we just trust this computer ? be it accurate ? can the number be verify ? there be no way to know . smart meter pricing smart metering calculate electrical usage base on time of use ( tou ) pricing by applying change hourly rate . for example , since the heavy time for electrical usage take place between the hour of 2pm to 6pm a penalizing high rate will be apply to discourage use during those hour . low rate apply in the late evening and extreme early morning . that way you can do your laundry at midnight . projected higher cost a a result to tou pricing , those that be home during the day will be most effect like senior , retiree , unemployed , those on medical support system , small work-at-home business owner , and parent with small child . also , low-income and fixed-income household that be unable to shift the time of day that use energy will also see their bill skyrocket . skyrocket complaint consider australia where they have be live with smart meter since before 2011 . this video be about an australian family that be be charge 60 % more for power that she be not consume . however , the power company stand their ground and say their smart meter be correct . unlike analog meter where you want watch the dial rotate a the homeowner consume energy smart meter be digital computer . bakersfield bill skyrocket a expose in this eyewitness news investigative report . pricing problem with the new smart meter be not only in pg & e territory . `` the old meter be defective and that be why your bill have go up . '' `` the gas meter be incorrectly instal and that be why your bill go up . '' and more utility bill skyrocket ... skyrocket utility bill after installation united state tv news video ( 3 minute ) skyrocket utility bill after installation canada tv news video ( 2 minute ) systemic smart meter billing error over 200 % uncovered australia tv news video ( 7 minute ) increase utility bill , 6,780 complaint after smart meter installed - canadatv news video ( 2 minute ) cbs tv 5 investigates smart meter utility bill complaint ( 5 minute ) united state abc tv 7 pg & e acknowledges 10 of thousand of smartmeter problem ( 3 minute ) 