Ask Mr. Electricity : Myths about Saving Electricity Saving Electricity home Michael Bluejay 's home page | Contact As see in Newsweek , Forbes , NPR , the Christian Science Monitor , CNET , PC Magazine , InfoWorld , and everywhere else . Saving Electricity Mr. Electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . Saving Electricity 101 : Start Here How much it cost / how they charge What 's a Watt / Kilowatt ? How much energy do thing use ? How to measure electrical use Saving Electricity 102 : General Electricity Myths Using elec when off ? Why be my bill so high ? Capacity of an Outlet Electric Meters General Questions Main Topics Air Conditioners Clothes Dryers Computers Cooking Cooling Dryers ( clothes ) Elevators Heating Laundry Lighting Ovens Refrigerators Televisions Washing Machines Water Heaters Environment Carbon footprint calculator Carbon Offsets Solar Power Bicycle Power Alternative Energy Climate change Special Topics CFLs ( Compact Fluorescents ) Gas vs. Electric Standby power Surge Protectors ( TVSS ) Power Factor Commercial Buildings Using device overseas News News item Rebates & Tax Credits for U.S. consumer Incentives for instal insulation and for buying energy-efficient appliance like refrigerator , wash machine , and air conditioner be often available from local and state government and utility . You can see what 's available at DSIRE , Energy.gov , and Energy Star . Welcome student from : * South Adams M.S . ( Berne , IN ) Related site : Home Power Magazine . All about renewable energy for the home . No-Impact Man . Blog about a family strive to have no net impact . ( i.e. , What little they use , they offset . ) Inspirational . Off-Grid . News and resource about live without be connect to a utility company . Mr. Electricity in the news : `` Michael Bluejay run the outstanding Saving Electricity site that I 've mention many time before . '' -- J.D . Roth , Get Rich Slowly How much do your PC cost in electricity ? , PC Mech , Nov 21 , 2013 Can my bicycle power my toaster ? , Grist , June 10 , 2013 Six summer debt trap and how to avoid them , Main St , June 5 , 2013 To convert to gas or electric ? , Marketplace Radio ( NPR ) , July 20 , 2012 8 Simple Ways to Reduce Household Waste , Living Green Magazine , June 29 , 2012 Why be my electric bill so high ? , New York Daily News , Mar . 27 , 2012 Fight the Power , CTV ( Canada 's large private broadcaster ) , Mar . 23 , 2012 How to Cut Your Electric Bill , Business Insider , Mar . 20 , 2012 Tips to save energy when use your computer , WPLG Channel 10 ( Miami , FL ) , Feb. 23 , 2012 How long will it take an energy-efficient washer/dryer to pay for itself ? , Christian Science Monitor , Oct. 29 , 2011 10 Easy Ways to Lower Your Electric Bill , Forbes , August 23 , 2011 18 way to save on utility bill , AARP , July 9 , 2011 Hot over the energy bill ? Turn off the A/C , just chill , Chicago Tribune , June 24 , 2011 Cool Site of the Day , Kim Komando ( syndicate radio host ) , May 29 , 2011 This calculator show how much you spend wash clothes , Lifehacker , May 6 , 2011 What you pay when you 're away , WCPO Channel 9 ( Cincinatti ) , May 5 , 2011 Spotting energy glutton in your home , Chicago Tribune ( CA ) , Apr . 7 , 2011 Walnut Creek author have tip for livng a thrifty life , Contra Costa Times ( CA ) , Jan. 24 , 2011 Do space heater save money and energy ? , Mother Jones , Jan. 10 , 2011 Energy step to take for a less pricey winter , Reuters , Nov. 10 , 2010 Should you shut down your computer or put it to sleep ? , Mother Jones , Nov. 1 , 2010 Energy saving tip for fall , Chicago Tribune & Seattle Times Nov. 7 , 2010 10 way to save money on your utility bill , Yahoo ! Finance , Oct. 2 , 2010 The case against long-distance relationship , Slate , Sep. 3 , 2010 10 household item that be bleed you dry , Times Daily ( Florence , AL ) , July 27 , 2010 Cold , hard cash , Kansas City Star , June 22 , 10 Stretch your dollar , not your budget , Globe and Mail , May 18 , 2010 Auto abstinence , onearth magazine , Winter 2010 2010 Frugal Living Guide , Bankrate.com Energy-saving scheme yield 5.8m in saving , Times of Malta , Dec. 20 , 09 Four way to reduce your PC 's carbon footprint , CNET , Dec 2 , 09 The day I hit the brake , onearth magazine , Fall 2009 Enjoy the mild weather , low electricity bill , Detroit Free Press , Jul 18 , 09 The most energy-efficient way to heat a cup of water , Christian Science Monitor , Jun 16 , 09 Ten way to save energy , Times of Malta , Jan 3 , 09 Measuring your green IT baseline , InfoWorld , Sep 4 , 08 The Power Hungry Digital Lifestyle , PC Magazine , Sep 4 , 07 Net Interest , Newsweek , Feb 12 , 07 Going Green , Monsters and Critics , Jan 6 , 2007 A hunt for energy hog , Wall Street Journal Online , Dec 18 06 Electricity Myths Does it take more energy to turn on a light than to leave it on ? No . There 's no power surge when you turn on a light . Turning the light off ALWAYS save electricity , even if it 's for just a second . ( more on light ... ) Does it take more energy to turn on a computer than to leave it on ? No . There 's no meaningful power surge when you turn on a computer . Turning the computer off ALWAYS save electricity . Of course , you can also use the power saver feature . ( more on computer ... ) Is there ANY consumer device that use more energy when you turn it on than when it 's already on ? No , not in practical term . I do n't believe you . Everyone say there 's a surge when you turn on computer and stuff . There 's a surge but it 's so tiny you ca n't easily measure it . That 's because it happen for only a fraction of a second , and the surge itself be modest . It 's certainly not cost you any extra money , not even a penny . So there 's no surge in practical term . As far a you 're concern there 's no surge at all . Think of it this way : If a device use twice a much power a normal for one full second when you turn it on , that would mean that it cost you one whole extra second of electricity . Big deal . That 's a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of a penny . And in fact , the surge do n't really last for a whole second , it last for only a fraction of a second , and the surge be n't close to twice a much power a normal , it 's much less . Bottom line : Surge be so incredibly insignificant it 's really like there be no surge at all , for all intent and purpose . There be never a penalty for turn on a household device . Does it take more energy to cool a house in which the AC have be off all day , than to keep the AC run at , say , 85 degree during the day ? No . Cooling a hot house down at the end of the day always take less energy than leave the AC running all day , even if it 's run on a high setting . ( more on cool ... ) Does a 240V device use more electricity than the same device design to run off 120V ? No . The electric company charge you for watt-hour , not volt , and the wattage be the same . To figure volt you use the fomula V x Amps = Watts . A device that use twice a many volt will use half a many amp , so the wattage will be the same -- and so will the cost . Electricity Facts I hear that an electrical wire problem can lead to electricity `` leak '' out of the wire and into the abyss , cause a person to pay for electricity that they don't use . Yes , this be a possible . Note that on an early version of this page , I mistakenly list this one a a Myth , but an electrician correct me . When the wiring be n't connect correctly , it be indeed possible for electricity to `` leak '' . The electrician who contact me have a customer with a $ 15/mo . leak due to faulty wire . On another page I have detail instruction on how to check for this kind of electricity leak . Besides mis-wiring , you could also have undersized wire , where the wiring be too thin to handle the load be drive . When that happens the wire heat up . The extra heat generate represents waste energy , but more importantly , the extra heat can cause a fire which can burn your house down . If you have a modern home which have an electrical inspection when it be build then it 's unlikely that your wiring be inadequate . But if you have an old home or your wire be never inspect when instal , it 's possible that your wire be n't sufficient for what you 're run through it . Unfortunately this be n't the kind of thing you can easily test yourself . That 's a job for a competent electrician . Saving Electricity 101 : Start Here How much it cost / how they charge What 's a Watt / Kilowatt ? How much energy stuff us How to measure electrical use Mr. Electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . General Electricity Myths Using elec . when off ? Why be my bill so high ? Capacity of an Outlet Electric Meters General Questions Specific Appliances Cooling Heating Lighting Refrigerators Washing Machines Clothes Dryers Water Heaters Computers Televisions Cooking Elevators Environment Carbon footprint calculator Carbon offset Solar Power Bicycle Power Alternative Energy Climate change Special Topics Standby power Compact Fluorescents/CFL Surge Suppressors ( TVSS ) Power Factor Commercial Buildings Using device overseas Google pick the ad , not me . I do n't endorse the advertiser . ask mr. electricity : myth about saving electricity save electricity home michael bluejay 's home page | contact a see in newsweek , forbes , npr , the christian science monitor , cnet , pc magazine , infoworld , and everywhere else . save electricity mr. electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . save electricity 101 : start here how much it cost / how they charge what 's a watt / kilowatt ? how much energy do thing use ? how to measure electrical use save electricity 102 : general electricity myth use elec when off ? why be my bill so high ? capacity of an outlet electric meter general question main topic air conditioner clothes dryer computer cook cool dryer ( clothes ) elevator heating laundry light oven refrigerator television wash machine water heater environment carbon footprint calculator carbon offset solar power bicycle power alternative energy climate change special topic cfls ( compact fluorescent ) gas vs. electric standby power surge protector ( tv ) power factor commercial building use device overseas news news item rebate & tax credit for u.s. consumer incentive for instal insulation and for buying energy-efficient appliance like refrigerator , wash machine , and air conditioner be often available from local and state government and utility . you can see what 's available at dsire , energy.gov , and energy star . welcome student from : * south adam m.s . ( berne , in ) related site : home power magazine . all about renewable energy for the home . no-impact man . blog about a family strive to have no net impact . ( i.e. , what little they use , they offset . ) inspirational . off-grid . news and resource about live without be connect to a utility company . mr. electricity in the news : `` michael bluejay run the outstanding saving electricity site that i 've mention many time before . '' -- j.d . roth , get rich slowly how much do your pc cost in electricity ? , pc mech , nov 21 , 2013 can my bicycle power my toaster ? , grist , june 10 , 2013 six summer debt trap and how to avoid them , main st , june 5 , 2013 to convert to gas or electric ? , marketplace radio ( npr ) , july 20 , 2012 8 simple way to reduce household waste , live green magazine , june 29 , 2012 why be my electric bill so high ? , new york daily news , mar . 27 , 2012 fight the power , ctv ( canada 's large private broadcaster ) , mar . 23 , 2012 how to cut your electric bill , business insider , mar . 20 , 2012 tip to save energy when use your computer , wplg channel 10 ( miami , fl ) , feb. 23 , 2012 how long will it take an energy-efficient washer/dryer to pay for itself ? , christian science monitor , oct. 29 , 2011 10 easy way to lower your electric bill , forbes , august 23 , 2011 18 way to save on utility bill , aarp , july 9 , 2011 hot over the energy bill ? turn off the a/c , just chill , chicago tribune , june 24 , 2011 cool site of the day , kim komando ( syndicate radio host ) , may 29 , 2011 this calculator show how much you spend wash clothes , lifehacker , may 6 , 2011 what you pay when you 're away , wcpo channel 9 ( cincinatti ) , may 5 , 2011 spot energy glutton in your home , chicago tribune ( ca ) , apr . 7 , 2011 walnut creek author have tip for livng a thrifty life , contra costa time ( ca ) , jan. 24 , 2011 do space heater save money and energy ? , mother jones , jan. 10 , 2011 energy step to take for a less pricey winter , reuters , nov. 10 , 2010 should you shut down your computer or put it to sleep ? , mother jones , nov. 1 , 2010 energy saving tip for fall , chicago tribune & seattle time nov. 7 , 2010 10 way to save money on your utility bill , yahoo ! finance , oct. 2 , 2010 the case against long-distance relationship , slate , sep. 3 , 2010 10 household item that be bleed you dry , time daily ( florence , al ) , july 27 , 2010 cold , hard cash , kansa city star , june 22 , 10 stretch your dollar , not your budget , globe and mail , may 18 , 2010 auto abstinence , onearth magazine , winter 2010 2010 frugal living guide , bankrate.com energy-saving scheme yield 5.8m in saving , time of malta , dec. 20 , 09 four way to reduce your pc 's carbon footprint , cnet , dec 2 , 09 the day i hit the brake , onearth magazine , fall 2009 enjoy the mild weather , low electricity bill , detroit free press , jul 18 , 09 the most energy-efficient way to heat a cup of water , christian science monitor , jun 16 , 09 ten way to save energy , time of malta , jan 3 , 09 measure your green it baseline , infoworld , sep 4 , 08 the power hungry digital lifestyle , pc magazine , sep 4 , 07 net interest , newsweek , feb 12 , 07 go green , monster and critic , jan 6 , 2007 a hunt for energy hog , wall street journal online , dec 18 06 electricity myth do it take more energy to turn on a light than to leave it on ? no . there 's no power surge when you turn on a light . turning the light off always save electricity , even if it 's for just a second . ( more on light ... ) do it take more energy to turn on a computer than to leave it on ? no . there 's no meaningful power surge when you turn on a computer . turning the computer off always save electricity . of course , you can also use the power saver feature . ( more on computer ... ) be there any consumer device that use more energy when you turn it on than when it 's already on ? no , not in practical term . i do n't believe you . everyone say there 's a surge when you turn on computer and stuff . there 's a surge but it 's so tiny you ca n't easily measure it . that 's because it happen for only a fraction of a second , and the surge itself be modest . it 's certainly not cost you any extra money , not even a penny . so there 's no surge in practical term . a far a you 're concern there 's no surge at all . think of it this way : if a device use twice a much power a normal for one full second when you turn it on , that would mean that it cost you one whole extra second of electricity . big deal . that 's a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of a penny . and in fact , the surge do n't really last for a whole second , it last for only a fraction of a second , and the surge be n't close to twice a much power a normal , it 's much less . bottom line : surge be so incredibly insignificant it 's really like there be no surge at all , for all intent and purpose . there be never a penalty for turn on a household device . do it take more energy to cool a house in which the ac have be off all day , than to keep the ac run at , say , 85 degree during the day ? no . cooling a hot house down at the end of the day always take less energy than leave the ac running all day , even if it 's run on a high setting . ( more on cool ... ) do a 240v device use more electricity than the same device design to run off 120v ? no . the electric company charge you for watt-hour , not volt , and the wattage be the same . to figure volt you use the fomula v x amp = watt . a device that use twice a many volt will use half a many amp , so the wattage will be the same -- and so will the cost . electricity fact i hear that an electrical wire problem can lead to electricity `` leak '' out of the wire and into the abyss , cause a person to pay for electricity that they don't use . yes , this be a possible . note that on an early version of this page , i mistakenly list this one a a myth , but an electrician correct me . when the wiring be n't connect correctly , it be indeed possible for electricity to `` leak '' . the electrician who contact me have a customer with a $ 15/mo . leak due to faulty wire . on another page i have detail instruction on how to check for this kind of electricity leak . besides mis-wiring , you could also have undersized wire , where the wiring be too thin to handle the load be drive . when that happens the wire heat up . the extra heat generate represents waste energy , but more importantly , the extra heat can cause a fire which can burn your house down . if you have a modern home which have an electrical inspection when it be build then it 's unlikely that your wiring be inadequate . but if you have an old home or your wire be never inspect when instal , it 's possible that your wire be n't sufficient for what you 're run through it . unfortunately this be n't the kind of thing you can easily test yourself . that 's a job for a competent electrician . save electricity 101 : start here how much it cost / how they charge what 's a watt / kilowatt ? how much energy stuff us how to measure electrical use mr. electricity be your guide to saving energy in your home . general electricity myth use elec . when off ? why be my bill so high ? capacity of an outlet electric meter general question specific appliance cool heating light refrigerator wash machine clothes dryer water heater computer television cook elevator environment carbon footprint calculator carbon offset solar power bicycle power alternative energy climate change special topic standby power compact fluorescents/cfl surge suppressor ( tv ) power factor commercial building use device overseas google pick the ad , not me . i do n't endorse the advertiser . 