Central Air Conditioners Buying Guide | HomeTips Buying Guides DIY Home Repairs Home Projects How Your House Works Home Appliances Comfort Exterior Interior Plumbing Tech & Electric Yard Select Page HomeTips & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp > & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp Buying Guides & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp > & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp & nbsp Air Conditioners - Central Central Air Conditioners Buying Guide by Don Vandervort , HomeTips 1997-2015 Don Vandervort , HomeTips A central air conditioner cool with an outdoor compressor and condenser coil connect to a an indoor air handler ( or furnace ) fit with an evaporator coil . In This Article : Types of Central Air Conditioners A/C Buying Considerations Central AC Energy Efficiency Central Air ConditioningWarranties Ozone Concerns of AC Refrigerants Chill out ! This expert , unbiased guide will help you get more bang for the buck when buy central air condition . It include anticipate cost , select size , scrutinize warranty , and more . Need help NOW ? Get a Local Air Conditioning Pro Fast ! If youre think about instal or replace a central air conditioner , youre probably aware that this be one of the most significant home improvement you can make in term of comfort . On a hot , humid summer day , few amenity add to quality of life more than central air condition . Air conditioning be also one of the most expensive improvement youre likely to make , so it pay to do your homework and choose wisely . Types of Central Air Conditioners This article be about whole-house air condition , not single-room unit or heat pump . Unlike window , portable , or in-the-wall single room air conditioner , a central air conditioner distributes condition air throughout the house . If youre not sure whether to buy individual room air conditioner or a central air conditioner , see the article Is a Central Air Conditioner Smarter Than AC ? Choosing Central or Room AC , which compare the two . For information on single-room air conditioner , please see How to Buy a Window or Room Air Conditioner . A central air conditioner condenser A central air conditioner consists of a condenser unit , an air-handling unit with a blower ( such a a forced-air furnace ) and an evaporator coil , and a system of ductwork for exchanging room air with chilled air . The condenser typically sit outdoors , and the air handler with the evaporator be usually locate in the basement or attic . The ductwork be rout through the basement or attic and wall throughout the house . The air conditioner us refrigeration technology to cool the air . ( For more about how this work , see How a Central a Air Conditioner Works . ) A heat pump be relate to an air conditioner . It be essentially a central air conditioner that can be reverse in winter to heat a house . If youd like to know more , see Heat Pumps Buying Guide . A/C Buying Considerations If youve decide that a central AC unit be right for your home , it time to dig deeper into the particular size and type of unit , a well a it energy efficiency , feature , warranty , and more . These issue be discuss below . For additional help , see : Sizing a Central Air Conditioner Central AC Cost Considerations Central AC Energy Efficiency Because of today high cost of energy , air conditioner be very expensive to operate , and they consume more than their share of our precious energy resource . Because of this , when choose an air conditioner , the name of the game be efficiencythat be , an air conditioner ability to convert energy ( electricity ) into cooling in the most cost-effective way . You want maximum cool for minimum buck . One note about replace an age system : Be sure to replace both the outdoor condense unit and the indoor evaporator . If you just replace the condensing unit , potential gain of a higher-efficiency unit may be lose . The SEER Rating Christian Vandervort , HomeTips All heating and air condition product carry an EnergyGuide label to show their efficiency relative to other model . To reduce waste energy , the U.S. Department of Energy establish minimum efficiency standard for air conditioner . Every AC unit be give an efficiency rating , call a SEER short for Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating . The SEER be list on the yellow Energy Guide label post on each unit . Its very important to look at these rating . The high the number the more efficient the unit and the less it will cost to provide cooling . During the past decade , the minimum SEER rating require of new unit have continue to rise . Though old air conditioner may have a SEER a low a 6 , model manufacture after January , 2006 , must have a SEER of at least 13 . The most efficient model have SEER rating of 15 to 17 . Just so you understand the relative scale , a SEER of 13 be 30 % more efficient than a SEER of 10 . Energy-Saving Features To achieve particularly high SEER rating , air conditioner may have any number of energy-saving feature . Look for : Large coil for more efficient heat transfer A high temperature rating ( EER ) great than 11.6 and a thermal expansion valve . When the weather be hottest , this translate to high-efficiency operation . A variable-speed blower to reduce electricity consumption , tailor the usage to the need A fan-only switch . This allow you to turn off the cooling but leave the fan run to circulate air for more natural , affordable cooling . An automatic delay fan switch , which keep the fan on long enough to utilize residual cool air that remain after the compressor turn off A filter indicator light that let you know when the filter need change . This boost efficiency by ensuring proper maintenance . Electronic thermostat help trim the efficiency of your cooling system . Other Features Many high-efficiency product combine several of these feature and add some of their own . Case in point : The York Stellar Ultra feature two compressor that work in tandem when high cooling capacity be need . The rest of the time , only one of the compressor operate . These , combine with a variable-speed motor , achieve a SEER rating of 16.7 . Programmable thermostat also help by offering precise control . For more about these , see Thermostats Buying Guide . What About Ultra-High Efficiency ? Do you need an ultra-high-efficiency air conditioner ? Not necessarily . Of course , for the sake of the environmentfrom energy usage to greenhouse-gas emissionsthe high the efficiency the good . But , in term of dollar , the saving compare to the premium you will pay may not pencil out for you , particularly if you live in a climate that require little cool during the year or if your home isnt tightly insulate . On the other hand , where an air conditioner must run frequently during the year , a highly efficient model will pay for itself in energy saving over a period of year . Central Air Conditioning Warranties Air conditioning warranty be key to ensuring that AC system will last for many year . Before purchase central air condition , ask forand readits warranty and be sure you understand the term and restriction . Air conditioning warranty can vary significantly from one manufacturer to another . A warranty may cover most of the unit under one set of term or offer differ coverage on various part of the air conditioner . For example , Whirlpool cover all part of the mechanical and refrigeration system ( except the air filter ) for five year , include labor . Carrier cover the air-conditioning unit and authorize labor for repair or replacement for one year . With Carrier , the refrigeration component , include the compressor , condenser , evaporator , connect tubing , and refrigeration chargeincluding labor for repair or replacementare cover for year two through five under an extended warranty . With many manufacturer , part may be cover , but the labor for replacing such part a the motor , solenoid , relay , switch , and fan may not be cover by warranty . Read the fine print . And then there be the Limited Lifetime Warranty . Amana , for example , offer this and will cover the compressor of a high-efficiency air conditioner or heat pump for as long a you own the house . The bottom line with central air condition warranty be to read them carefully and understand what they do and do not cover . Be advise that a warranty will be void if the air conditioner be work on by a non-authorized service person and that it do not cover standard maintenance , clean , or damage that be cause by neglecting maintenance . Ozone Concerns of AC Refrigerants Refrigerants use in most air-conditioning system manufacture until recently can be very damage to the Earths ozone layer . Equipment that contains and operate use these refrigerant be be phase out internationally . When buy new air condition system , be sure to buy a current product that utilize refrigerant that do less damage to the environment . How do refrigerant pas from AC equipment to the atmosphere ? All refrigerant gas be contain in an air conditioner seal system . The problem be that an age seal system may develop leak and allow the refrigerant to escape . The release of these gas also occur during servicing . AC Refrigerants Being Phased Out In 1987 , an international agreement begin a worldwide phase-out of ozone-depleting CFCs ( chlorofluorocarbon ) , eventually stop production of AC equipment that use them in 1996 . These be replace by hydrochlorofluorocarbon ( HCFCs ) . R-22 ( also know a HCFC-22 or , more commonly Freon ) have be the favor refrigerant for residential air-conditioning and heat pump system . This be less damage to the Earths ozone layer , but still be an ozone-destroying greenhouse gas and , during it manufacture , produce HFC-23 , which contribute significantly to global warming . This be a problem , so the manufacture and import of R-22 AC equipment be phase out by the EPA in 2010 under the Clean Air Act . The manufacturer of the refrigerant R-22 be reduce by 75 % , will be far reduce by 90 % in 2015 , and will be stop by 2020 . As a result , R-22 be become increasingly expensive . If you need to have R-22 recharge in existing equipment , be sure to get a price quote first and find out whether the quote include servicing , which typically cost about $ 115 . Dont be surprise if the gas cost $ 100 per pound or more . This price be only go to go up . ( Equipment typically only need to be recharge if it leakingfirst and foremost , get the leak fix ! ) Alternatives to R-22 Refrigerant Today , manufacturer of residential air condition system offer AC equipment that use ozone-friendly refrigerant . For servicing exist equipment , R-22 be still available and will continue to be available for 10 year or more . The EPA have review a variety of substitute for R-22 . You can see these on these alternative to R-22 on the EPA website . A popular substitute for R-22 be R-410A , a blend of hydrofluorocarbon ( HFCs ) . It be manufacture and sell under various trade name , include Puron , Forane 410A , GENETRON AZ-20 , and SUVA 410A . It do not deplete the ozone layer but , like R-22 , it manufacturer do contribute to global warming . R-407C , another acceptable substitute for R-22 , be use in some European residential air conditioner . NEXT SEE : Sizing a Central Air Conditioner Featured Resource : FREE Help Finding a Pre-Screened A/C Contractor Call for free estimate from local pro now : 1-866-342-3263 Join the Conversation Christopher Hale During the summer month when air-conditioning unit be in use to cool the home and draft leak the cool air outside while the warm air infiltrates inside . Annual energy consumption cost could be save by identifying draft and undertake some simple maintenance to stop air leakage and good insulate the family home . That will be a lot of money that could be save each and every year . Don Vandervort , HomeTips Thanks for your contribution . Please use the Find It Fast search box to find some of our weatherstripping article . Search Expert Articles Search for : See full menu of article topic Why We 're Experts Related Articles Central AC Cost Considerations How a Central Air Conditioner Works Join u for weekend project and money-saving tip ! First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up ! About HomeTips Advertise Site Map Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact HomeTips Facebook Twitter Google RSS Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress E-Mail Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Google + 