Manual vs Electric Toothbrushes - Which be Better ? | Denticheck Add : Ground Level , 150 Collins Street , Hobart TAS 7000 | P : ( 03 ) 6224 3207 | E : click here Home Meet Our Team Our Services Preventative Dentistry Oral Hygiene Preventative Care Gum ( Periodontal ) Disease Custom Fitted Mouthguards General Dentistry White Fillings Endodontic Treatment Wisdom Tooth Removal Children 's Dentistry Chompers Kids Zone Cosmetic Dentistry Teeth Whitening Porcelain Veneers Dental Implants Crowns & Bridges Orthodontics Patient Experience New Patient Online Form Patient Referral Program Patient Payment Plans Dentisure Corporate Dental Program Technology Media Centre Manual vs Electric Toothbrushes New Year New You Are Dental Implants Suitable for Me ? Look like a professional playing sport Are you suitable for brace ? Food that protect your teeth and gum Stop Snoring : Do You Sleep Well ? Are You Flossing Correctly Is It Time To Schedule A Dental Check-Up ? Tax Tips : Claim Back Your Dental Expenses Busting Dental Myths Top 5 Cosmetic Procedures Bupa Members First Denticheck Renovations Bupa Health Insurance Anxious Patients FAQs Contact Us Privacy Policy Manual vs. Electric Toothbrushes The good old-fashioned hand brush or modern day electric toothbrush ... which be well ? The effectiveness of clean your teeth with a manual toothbrush compare to an electric toothbrush be commonly debate today . Theres an assumption that the modern day electric replacement be far superior to the good old-fashioned manual toothbrush . The reality be that it essential to brush your teeth and whether youre use a manual toothbrush or an electric option , the important factor be complete a thorough , two-minute brush at least once every day . So whatever toothbrush you choose to use isnt important because it the brush itself that count . In say this , there be some pro and con to consider when make the decision to use a manual or electronic toothbrush . Heres a rundown of how different toothbrush type can enhance your dental routine : The humble manual toothbrush : More for less ! Manual toothbrushes will thoroughly clean your tongue and inside cheek when youre do your two minute routine brush . The circular head electric toothbrush perform poorly at clean your tongue . However , some do come with tongue cleaner . Manual toothbrushes be more flexible . Unlike electric toothbrush with tightly compact bristle , manual toothbrush be so easy to manoeuvre around your mouth . Their flexible bristle can bend back far enough to reach those stubborn teeth at the back hide food . Theyre easy to travel with . How many time have you travel with an electric toothbrush think it be fully charge , but it be actually dead ? And without a charger , you have to rely on use the complimentary hotel toothbrush or even have to run to the corner store where you end up buy a cheap manual toothbrush anyway . Manual toothbrushes come in a much larger variety . Theyre available in soft , medium and hard bristle with a small , standard or large head . Now if youre an adult with a tiny mouth , youre go to need a lot of luck finding a small head on an electric toothbrush that doesnt have Disney print all over it . The electric toothbrush : Quality benefit ! Advanced electric toothbrush include an automatic timer in their design , which make it easy for user to know when their two minute brush be complete . This ensures a proper clean be achieve to maintain oral hygiene . You get what you pay for . While the popularity surround electric toothbrush have make them readily available , dentist recommend that you spend money to get a quality product . ORAL B electric toothbrush supersede the cheapie supermarket one that dont offer any real benefit . An electric toothbrush be very ideal for people who suffer from arthritis , carpal tunnel syndrome and any other painful or movement-restricting condition . Since the electric toothbrush rotate head do all the work , the user be exempt from constantly apply effort with their wrist and hand ; make dental care a much easy task . Read more article in our medium centre , or call u today on ( 03 ) 6224 3207 to find out how we can help with your Oral Health . Or , signup for our newsletter We 'll keep you inform on tip for take care of your oral health . Name Email Payment Plans We care for your smile and dental health and have partner with Denticare to tailor a payment plan to suit you . Contact our office for information regard our payment plan . See more More Corporate Dental Program Along with Dental Care Network we be offer the Corporate Dental Program , a zero-cost , zero-admin employee benefit scheme which provide you with exclusive benefit for dental treatment if you be an employee of one of our partner corporate manual vs electric toothbrush - which be better ? | denticheck add : ground level , 150 collins street , hobart ta 7000 | p : ( 03 ) 6224 3207 | e : click here home meet our team our service preventative dentistry oral hygiene preventative care gum ( periodontal ) disease custom fitted mouthguards general dentistry white filling endodontic treatment wisdom tooth removal child 's dentistry chompers kid zone cosmetic dentistry teeth whitening porcelain veneer dental implant crown & bridge orthodontics patient experience new patient online form patient referral program patient payment plan dentisure corporate dental program technology medium centre manual vs electric toothbrush new year new you are dental implant suitable for me ? look like a professional playing sport are you suitable for brace ? food that protect your teeth and gum stop snoring : do you sleep well ? are you flossing correctly be it time to schedule a dental check-up ? tax tip : claim back your dental expense bust dental myth top 5 cosmetic procedure bupa member first denticheck renovation bupa health insurance anxious patient faq contact u privacy policy manual vs. electric toothbrush the good old-fashioned hand brush or modern day electric toothbrush ... which be well ? the effectiveness of clean your teeth with a manual toothbrush compare to an electric toothbrush be commonly debate today . there an assumption that the modern day electric replacement be far superior to the good old-fashioned manual toothbrush . the reality be that it essential to brush your teeth and whether youre use a manual toothbrush or an electric option , the important factor be complete a thorough , two-minute brush at least once every day . so whatever toothbrush you choose to use isnt important because it the brush itself that count . in say this , there be some pro and con to consider when make the decision to use a manual or electronic toothbrush . here a rundown of how different toothbrush type can enhance your dental routine : the humble manual toothbrush : more for less ! manual toothbrushes will thoroughly clean your tongue and inside cheek when youre do your two minute routine brush . the circular head electric toothbrush perform poorly at clean your tongue . however , some do come with tongue cleaner . manual toothbrushes be more flexible . unlike electric toothbrush with tightly compact bristle , manual toothbrush be so easy to manoeuvre around your mouth . their flexible bristle can bend back far enough to reach those stubborn teeth at the back hide food . theyre easy to travel with . how many time have you travel with an electric toothbrush think it be fully charge , but it be actually dead ? and without a charger , you have to rely on use the complimentary hotel toothbrush or even have to run to the corner store where you end up buy a cheap manual toothbrush anyway . manual toothbrushes come in a much larger variety . theyre available in soft , medium and hard bristle with a small , standard or large head . now if youre an adult with a tiny mouth , youre go to need a lot of luck finding a small head on an electric toothbrush that doesnt have disney print all over it . the electric toothbrush : quality benefit ! advanced electric toothbrush include an automatic timer in their design , which make it easy for user to know when their two minute brush be complete . this ensures a proper clean be achieve to maintain oral hygiene . you get what you pay for . while the popularity surround electric toothbrush have make them readily available , dentist recommend that you spend money to get a quality product . oral b electric toothbrush supersede the cheapie supermarket one that dont offer any real benefit . an electric toothbrush be very ideal for people who suffer from arthritis , carpal tunnel syndrome and any other painful or movement-restricting condition . since the electric toothbrush rotate head do all the work , the user be exempt from constantly apply effort with their wrist and hand ; make dental care a much easy task . read more article in our medium centre , or call u today on ( 03 ) 6224 3207 to find out how we can help with your oral health . or , signup for our newsletter we 'll keep you inform on tip for take care of your oral health . name email payment plan we care for your smile and dental health and have partner with denticare to tailor a payment plan to suit you . contact our office for information regard our payment plan . see more more corporate dental program along with dental care network we be offer the corporate dental program , a zero-cost , zero-admin employee benefit scheme which provide you with exclusive benefit for dental treatment if you be an employee of one of our partner corporate 