Oregon lawmaker introduce bill to ban electricity from coal-fired power plant | OregonLive.com OregonLive.com Menu Home News Entertainment Sports High School Sports Business Local Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Photos Videos Opinion Classifieds Obituaries Find & Save Local Businesses PDXtra Follow Us Subscribe Back to Main Menu News Home Education Environment Health & Fitness Pacific Northwest Politics Road Conditions US & World Weather School , Event Closures Steve Duin Joseph Rose 's Hard Drive The Oregonian The Beaverton Leader The Hillsboro Argus The Forest Grove Leader Oregon Watchdog Crime Back to Main Menu Entertainment Home Food & Dining Books Comics Puzzles Events Music Performance TV & Movies Living Parenting Homes & Gardens Pets Outdoors Travel Art TV Listings Celebrity News Travel Plus Living Plus Back to Main Menu Sports News Home Blazers John Canzano Beavers Ducks Golf Hillsboro Hops NBA MLB NFL NCAA Pac-12 Pilots Recruiting Thorns Timbers Track & Field Vikings Portland Winterhawks Sports Scoreboard Tennis Back to Main Menu Business News Home Front Porch It 's Only Money Oregon & the Economy Playbooks & Profits Silicon Forest Window Shop Stock Market Report Business Public Blog Back to Main Menu Local News Home Clackamas County Portland Washington County Clark County , Wash . Gresham Back to Main Menu Multimedia Photos from the Oregonian Photos from the Beaverton Leader Photos from the Hillsboro Argus Photos from the Forest Grove Leader Photo Essays Photo Contests Purchase a Photo Your Photos Back to Main Menu Videos from the Oregonian Videos from The Beaverton Leader Videos from the Hillsboro Argus Videos from The Forest Grove Leader Your Videos Back to Main Menu The Stump Editorials Letters to the Editor My Oregon OpEd Elizabeth Hovde David Sarasohn Back to Main Menu High School Sports Home Football Boys Basketball Girls Basketball Boys Swimming Girls Swimming Wrestling Off Season Sports Back to High School Sports Menu Girls Volleyball Boys Soccer Girls Soccer Boys Cross Country Girls Cross Country Baseball Softball Boys Water Polo Boys Track and Field Girls Water Polo Girls Track and Field Boys Tennis Girls Tennis Boys Golf Girls Golf Boys Lacrosse Girls Lacrosse Boys Ice Hockey Boys Skiing Girls Skiing Field Hockey Boys Rugby Dance and Drill Competitive Cheer Back to Main Menu Visit our Facebook Page Follow u on Twitter Visit u on Google Plus Back to Main Menu The Oregonian Hillsboro Argus Email newsletter Mobile apps Back to Main Menu Close Customize Your Weather Set Your Location ( Enter City and State or Zip Code ) Congratulations ! Your weather be set to . You can change the location at any time . AccuWeather.com Quick Look Change your current location View Full Weather Report Search Search Search OregonLive.com Account Sign In Close Sign in to OregonLive.com Remember me Forgot your username and password ? Do n't have an account ? Register now for free , or sign in with any of these service : You be sign in a Edit Public Profile Sign Out Favorite Schools expand Favorite Teams close Subscribe The Oregonian Hillsboro Argus Email newsletter Mobile apps comment Oregon lawmaker introduce bill to ban electricity from coal-fired power plant 10x8_boardman_plant.JPG Portland General Electric own the only coal-fired power plant in Oregon , which be the state 's large stationary source of greenhouse gas emission . The utility have already agree to shut the plant in 2020 , but Oregon be still a significant importer of power generate at coal-fired plant in Wyoming and Montana . ( ( The Oregonian/Brent Wojahn ) ) Print Ted Sickinger| The Oregonian/OregonLive By Ted Sickinger| The Oregonian/OregonLive The Oregonian Email the author | Follow on Twitter on February 02 , 2015 at 6:00 AM , update February 04 , 2015 at 4:33 PM View/Post Comments Two Oregon lawmaker have introduce a bill that would upend Oregon 's energy supply , eliminate electricity from coal-fired power plant in the next decade and replace it with primarily wind and solar energy . The `` Coal to Clean '' legislation would not only ban coal , but mandate that utility replace it with energy source that be 90 percent cleaner . That would bar utility from build big natural gas-fired plant , take two of their large and most reliable source of power off the table . That would create a big and potentially expensive hole to backfill . Even with the region 's abundance of hydroelectric power , fully a third of the electricity consume by Oregonians come from coal-fired power plant spread around the west . PacifiCorp still rely on coal to supply two-thirds of it customer ' power across six state , and Portland General Electric for about 30 percent of the energy it deliver in Oregon . Both utility have be under pressure from environmental and ratepayer group to transition away from coal , but the go-to resource to replace it have be natural gas , which have it own environmental issue ( though only about half the carbon intensity of coal ) . Environmental group say it 's too risky to keep investing in dirty fossil fuel , whether upgrading coal plant with new pollution control or build new gas plant . Neither eliminates carbon dioxide emission , and both could leave ratepayer at risk of strand investment or carbon penalty if strict greenhouse regulation be adopt . `` We think it will be cheap for customer to transition away from dirty resource now and invest in a cleaner mix , `` say Rachel Shimshak , executive director of the advocacy group Renewable Northwest . `` You might as well make the right decision in the first place . It 's a no-regrets policy . '' Utilities , however , think their ratepayer may have some regret when they see the price tag and the policy 's impact on reliability . `` Its going to be in the billion and billion of dollar and how that break out for Oregon , it 's inestimable , '' say PacifiCorp spokesman Paul Vogel . `` It 's not the right way to go about this transition that we all agree that we need to be on . '' The sponsor of the bill be Sen. Chris Edwards , D-Eugene , and Rep Tobias Read , D-Beaverton . But the source of the legislation be the Sierra Club , the Oregon Conservation Network and and Renewable Northwest , which have be push a `` Beyond Coal '' campaign in Oregon for some time . Oregon 's residential ratepayer advocate , the Citizen 's Utility Board of Oregon , be also endorse the bill despite the fact that no cost estimate have be produce . `` Ultimately we 're go to have to reduce our emission and close the coal plant , '' say Bob Jenks , CUB 's executive director . `` The theory here be let 's phase these out in a reasonable timetable of ten year and do this in a way that 's least cost to ratepayer . '' The cost be a big , unanswered question , a be whether the legislation would have any practical effect in reducing greenhouse gas emission . Oregon ca n't legislate the closure of out-of-state coal plant , which could simply dispatch their output elsewhere . And in reality , it 's not possible to reject coal-based electron at the state border or always discriminate between resource when make purchase in the wholesale power market . The Sierra Club release the result of a poll Thursday suggesting that 71 percent of Oregonians support the bill . More than half of respondent - 58 percent - say they support the proposal even if it would increase their energy bill . And in a bit of political stagecraft , the poll also find 47 percent of respondent say they would be more likely to vote for a politician who support it . Ratepayers do consistently tell utility in survey that they support renewables and would like to move away from coal . But it 's not at all clear how much they 're willing to pay for it . Ratepayers already have the option of pay about 10 percent more on their utility bill to offset the carbon impact of their electricity use by purchase renewable energy credit . Only about 10 percent of customer opt to do it . PGE have already agree to shut it 585-megawatt Boardman coal plant in eastern Oregon in 2020 , though it have n't firm up plan for replace it . Besides Boardman , there be two primary source of coal-fired power serve Oregon : PacifiCorp 's 2,100-megawatt Jim Bridger plant in Wyoming , and the Colstrip plant in Montana , in which PGE and PacifiCorp have a collective stake of about 450 megawatt . Tobias Read , the sponsor of the house version of the bill , say even if those out-of- state plant do n't close , Oregon would enjoy substantial economic development when the utility go to replace the power with a combination of home-grown renewables , energy efficiency and other demand reduction program . Yet replace even 1,000 megawatt of coal with the cheap renewable available - wind energy - could prove impractical . It would require utility to build some 3,000 megawatt of capacity , a wind turbine typically produce only about a third of their capacity . That 's an enormous addition to the current wind fleet , and most of the best wind site in Oregon be already take . The intermittent nature of the resource could also create reliability issue , transmission logjam , and exacerbate oversupply issue in the spring and summer , when wind and hydroelectric dam already produce more electricity than the region can absorb . The Bonneville Power Administration say it have already tap out it ability to integrate more wind energy in the region , which be typically accomplish by cycling the output of the federal dam up and down . And to get a sense of the potential cost , consider PGE 's recent purchase of the Tucannon River wind farm in Southeast Washington . With just 267 megawatt of nameplate capacity , it cost $ 500 million . PGE spokesman Steve Corson note that utility be already deal with new federal mandate govern greenhouse gas emission at exist power plant and be tackle the coal retirement issue as part of the `` integrate resource plan '' they file every other year . `` All these issue be go to have to be address in those analytical process , and from our perspective that 's where they belong , not in some arbitrary stop-the-electrons-here bill . We 're very concern about something that make such sweeping change in our resource plan process in such a short time frame . '' Shimshak of Renewables Northwest say utility be hide behind the cost and reliability question , when their customer be tell them this be a concept they support . Both Read and Chris Edwards , who chair the Senate Committee on Environment and Natural Resources , say they 're not wed to any of the specific number in the bill and be still try to understand the implication , cost and otherwise . `` The bill in it current state need a lot of work , '' Edwards say . `` There 's no doubt that there 's broad philosophical support for move in this direction . But people also want to understand the detail , and we ca n't move blindly forward without understanding the impact on rates. `` `` We 're try to move this conversation into a high gear , and we 're also try to develop smart solution to clean up the region 's energy mix . '' -- Ted Sickinger tsickinger @ oregonian.com 503-221-8505 ; @ tedsickinger View/Post Comments Related Stories Most Read Photo of the Day Lincoln High name Tabitha Ivan a it Rose Festival Princess More photo & video Active Discussions News Videos Best of OregonLive.com Bike theft boom in Portland ; see where ( map ) 6 year of Oregon wolf growth , in 1 GIF Where to live if you want to commute 45 minute or ... About Us About OregonLive.com About Oregonian Media Group Advertise with u Contact Us Jobs at Oregonian Media Group FAQ Our Journalists Subscribe Today The Oregonian Hillsboro Argus Email Newsletters Text Alerts RSS Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Delivery feedback Place a vacation hold Make a payment OregonLive.com Sections News Business Sports High School Sports Entertainment Living Travel Opinion Obituaries Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals Classifieds Local Deals Local Businesses Your Regional News Pages Clackamas County Clark County Gresham Portland Washington County More Local News Mobile iPhone , Android apps | Tablet Apps More on OregonLive.com Forums Videos Photos Interact with u Weather Post a job Post a classified ad Sell your car Sell/rent your hom oregon lawmaker introduce bill to ban electricity from coal-fired power plant | oregonlive.com oregonlive.com menu home news entertainment sport high school sport business local job auto real estate rental photo video opinion classified obituary find & save local business pdxtra follow u subscribe back to main menu news home education environment health & fitness pacific northwest politics road condition u & world weather school , event closure steve duin joseph rose 's hard drive the oregonian the beaverton leader the hillsboro argus the forest grove leader oregon watchdog crime back to main menu entertainment home food & dining book comic puzzle event music performance tv & movie live parent home & garden pet outdoors travel art tv listing celebrity news travel plus live plus back to main menu sport news home blazer john canzano beaver duck golf hillsboro hop nba mlb nfl ncaa pac-12 pilot recruit thorn timber track & field viking portland winterhawks sport scoreboard tennis back to main menu business news home front porch it 's only money oregon & the economy playbook & profit silicon forest window shop stock market report business public blog back to main menu local news home clackamas county portland washington county clark county , wash . gresham back to main menu multimedia photo from the oregonian photo from the beaverton leader photo from the hillsboro argus photo from the forest grove leader photo essay photo contest purchase a photo your photo back to main menu video from the oregonian video from the beaverton leader video from the hillsboro argus video from the forest grove leader your video back to main menu the stump editorial letter to the editor my oregon oped elizabeth hovde david sarasohn back to main menu high school sport home football boy basketball girl basketball boy swim girl swim wrestle off season sport back to high school sport menu girl volleyball boy soccer girl soccer boy cross country girl cross country baseball softball boy water polo boy track and field girl water polo girl track and field boy tennis girl tennis boy golf girl golf boy lacrosse girl lacrosse boy ice hockey boy ski girl ski field hockey boy rugby dance and drill competitive cheer back to main menu visit our facebook page follow u on twitter visit u on google plus back to main menu the oregonian hillsboro argus email newsletter mobile apps back to main menu close customize your weather set your location ( enter city and state or zip code ) congratulation ! your weather be set to . you can change the location at any time . accuweather.com quick look change your current location view full weather report search search search oregonlive.com account sign in close sign in to oregonlive.com remember me forgot your username and password ? do n't have an account ? register now for free , or sign in with any of these service : you be sign in a edit public profile sign out favorite school expand favorite team close subscribe the oregonian hillsboro argus email newsletter mobile apps comment oregon lawmaker introduce bill to ban electricity from coal-fired power plant 10x8_boardman_plant.jpg portland general electric own the only coal-fired power plant in oregon , which be the state 's large stationary source of greenhouse gas emission . the utility have already agree to shut the plant in 2020 , but oregon be still a significant importer of power generate at coal-fired plant in wyoming and montana . ( ( the oregonian/brent wojahn ) ) print ted sickinger| the oregonian/oregonlive by ted sickinger| the oregonian/oregonlive the oregonian email the author | follow on twitter on february 02 , 2015 at 6:00 am , update february 04 , 2015 at 4:33 pm view/post comment two oregon lawmaker have introduce a bill that would upend oregon 's energy supply , eliminate electricity from coal-fired power plant in the next decade and replace it with primarily wind and solar energy . the `` coal to clean '' legislation would not only ban coal , but mandate that utility replace it with energy source that be 90 percent cleaner . that would bar utility from build big natural gas-fired plant , take two of their large and most reliable source of power off the table . that would create a big and potentially expensive hole to backfill . even with the region 's abundance of hydroelectric power , fully a third of the electricity consume by oregonian come from coal-fired power plant spread around the west . pacificorp still rely on coal to supply two-thirds of it customer ' power across six state , and portland general electric for about 30 percent of the energy it deliver in oregon . both utility have be under pressure from environmental and ratepayer group to transition away from coal , but the go-to resource to replace it have be natural gas , which have it own environmental issue ( though only about half the carbon intensity of coal ) . environmental group say it 's too risky to keep investing in dirty fossil fuel , whether upgrading coal plant with new pollution control or build new gas plant . neither eliminates carbon dioxide emission , and both could leave ratepayer at risk of strand investment or carbon penalty if strict greenhouse regulation be adopt . `` we think it will be cheap for customer to transition away from dirty resource now and invest in a cleaner mix , `` say rachel shimshak , executive director of the advocacy group renewable northwest . `` you might as well make the right decision in the first place . it 's a no-regrets policy . '' utility , however , think their ratepayer may have some regret when they see the price tag and the policy 's impact on reliability . `` it going to be in the billion and billion of dollar and how that break out for oregon , it 's inestimable , '' say pacificorp spokesman paul vogel . `` it 's not the right way to go about this transition that we all agree that we need to be on . '' the sponsor of the bill be sen. chris edward , d-eugene , and rep tobias read , d-beaverton . but the source of the legislation be the sierra club , the oregon conservation network and and renewable northwest , which have be push a `` beyond coal '' campaign in oregon for some time . oregon 's residential ratepayer advocate , the citizen 's utility board of oregon , be also endorse the bill despite the fact that no cost estimate have be produce . `` ultimately we 're go to have to reduce our emission and close the coal plant , '' say bob jenks , cub 's executive director . `` the theory here be let 's phase these out in a reasonable timetable of ten year and do this in a way that 's least cost to ratepayer . '' the cost be a big , unanswered question , a be whether the legislation would have any practical effect in reducing greenhouse gas emission . oregon ca n't legislate the closure of out-of-state coal plant , which could simply dispatch their output elsewhere . and in reality , it 's not possible to reject coal-based electron at the state border or always discriminate between resource when make purchase in the wholesale power market . the sierra club release the result of a poll thursday suggesting that 71 percent of oregonian support the bill . more than half of respondent - 58 percent - say they support the proposal even if it would increase their energy bill . and in a bit of political stagecraft , the poll also find 47 percent of respondent say they would be more likely to vote for a politician who support it . ratepayer do consistently tell utility in survey that they support renewables and would like to move away from coal . but it 's not at all clear how much they 're willing to pay for it . ratepayer already have the option of pay about 10 percent more on their utility bill to offset the carbon impact of their electricity use by purchase renewable energy credit . only about 10 percent of customer opt to do it . pge have already agree to shut it 585-megawatt boardman coal plant in eastern oregon in 2020 , though it have n't firm up plan for replace it . besides boardman , there be two primary source of coal-fired power serve oregon : pacificorp 's 2,100-megawatt jim bridger plant in wyoming , and the colstrip plant in montana , in which pge and pacificorp have a collective stake of about 450 megawatt . tobias read , the sponsor of the house version of the bill , say even if those out-of- state plant do n't close , oregon would enjoy substantial economic development when the utility go to replace the power with a combination of home-grown renewables , energy efficiency and other demand reduction program . yet replace even 1,000 megawatt of coal with the cheap renewable available - wind energy - could prove impractical . it would require utility to build some 3,000 megawatt of capacity , a wind turbine typically produce only about a third of their capacity . that 's an enormous addition to the current wind fleet , and most of the best wind site in oregon be already take . the intermittent nature of the resource could also create reliability issue , transmission logjam , and exacerbate oversupply issue in the spring and summer , when wind and hydroelectric dam already produce more electricity than the region can absorb . the bonneville power administration say it have already tap out it ability to integrate more wind energy in the region , which be typically accomplish by cycling the output of the federal dam up and down . and to get a sense of the potential cost , consider pge 's recent purchase of the tucannon river wind farm in southeast washington . with just 267 megawatt of nameplate capacity , it cost $ 500 million . pge spokesman steve corson note that utility be already deal with new federal mandate govern greenhouse gas emission at exist power plant and be tackle the coal retirement issue as part of the `` integrate resource plan '' they file every other year . `` all these issue be go to have to be address in those analytical process , and from our perspective that 's where they belong , not in some arbitrary stop-the-electrons-here bill . we 're very concern about something that make such sweeping change in our resource plan process in such a short time frame . '' shimshak of renewables northwest say utility be hide behind the cost and reliability question , when their customer be tell them this be a concept they support . both read and chris edward , who chair the senate committee on environment and natural resource , say they 're not wed to any of the specific number in the bill and be still try to understand the implication , cost and otherwise . `` the bill in it current state need a lot of work , '' edward say . `` there 's no doubt that there 's broad philosophical support for move in this direction . but people also want to understand the detail , and we ca n't move blindly forward without understanding the impact on rates. `` `` we 're try to move this conversation into a high gear , and we 're also try to develop smart solution to clean up the region 's energy mix . '' -- ted sickinger tsickinger @ oregonian.com 503-221-8505 ; @ tedsickinger view/post comment related story most read photo of the day lincoln high name tabitha ivan a it rose festival princess more photo & video active discussion news video best of oregonlive.com bike theft boom in portland ; see where ( map ) 6 year of oregon wolf growth , in 1 gif where to live if you want to commute 45 minute or ... about u about oregonlive.com about oregonian medium group advertise with u contact u job at oregonian medium group faq our journalist subscribe today the oregonian hillsboro argus email newsletter text alert r already a subscriber manage your subscription delivery feedback place a vacation hold make a payment oregonlive.com section news business sport high school sport entertainment live travel opinion obituary job auto real estate rental classified local deal local business your regional news page clackamas county clark county gresham portland washington county more local news mobile iphone , android apps | tablet apps more on oregonlive.com forum video photo interact with u weather post a job post a classified ad sell your car sell/rent your hom 