Using a Power Monitor to Control Your Electricity Costs Home About Outreach Contact Us County Offices Directory Employment Print this fact sheet no . 10.628 Using a Power Monitor to Control Your Electricity Costs by C. Weiner and I. Shonle * ( 11/14 ) Quick Facts ... A power monitor be a device that can help you understand your home electricity consumption . Phantom load can account for up to 10 percent of the average household electricity consumption . Appliances that cycle , such a refrigerator and water heater , will need to plug in for a long period to capture true usage . A spreadsheet accompanies this fact sheet to calculate the cost of run these appliance . A power monitor be a device that will help you understand your home electricity consumption . It can be use for everything from decide whether it time to replace your old refrigerator to reduce phantom loadsthe electricity use when device be in stand-by mode ( which can account for up to 10 percent of the average household electricity consumption ) . Figure 1 . Check the voltage of appliance before plug them into a power monitor . The power monitor can be use on any device with an electrical plug , but it be only intend to measure 120V load ( standard U.S. household load ) . Look for the volt on the appliance tag ( see Figure 1 ) . Appliances that may draw more than 120 V include but be not limit to : clothes dryer , most electric water heater , some electric range , and some well pump . Appliances that use electricity but cant be measure by this device include furnace , central air conditioner , and most well pumps , so be aware that you may only be able to measure a portion of your electricity consumption . The worksheet that accompany this fact sheet will calculate the cost of run these appliance . It can be use to understand how much electrical appliance cost under two different rate structure : General or flat rate ( GR ) and Time-of-Use ( TOU ) . It can also be use to compare how much appliances would cost to operate under one current usage pattern versus how much they would cost to operate under different usage pattern ( i.e . operate use less wattage , less frequently , and/or at different time of the day ) . Functions of a power monitor Figure 2 . A power monitor in use . Power monitor have various function that allow you to check different aspect of electricity usage . For testing energy use , the most important one be Watts ( W ) and kilowatt hour ( kWh ) . The Watts function measure the instantaneous draw ( how much electricity a device be use ) , whereas the kWh give the measure of electricity usage over time . For example , a 1,000 watt electric heater run for one hour will use one kWh of electricity . Many power monitor also allow for electricity use to be convert into cost . While a default value ( i.e . $ 0.10 per kWh ) may be pre-entered on a power monitor , monitor user should enter the rate they be charge by their local utility to get the most accurate cost estimate from the monitor . Functions of less relevance for energy efficiency include Volts ( your reading should be close to 120.0 , the standard voltage in U.S. electrical outlet ) , Amps ( the measure of the flow rate of electric current ) , and HZ/PF ( 60 hertz cycle per second be the standard for alternating current in U.S. electrical outlet ) . With some monitor , the accumulate kWh data will be lose when the monitor be disconnect at the end of the monitoring period , so be sure to record the amount before disconnect . Using the worksheet Figure 3 . Some outlet require use of a 3-prong adapter to host a power monitor . Make a list of all the 120 V appliance in your house , and enter them into the worksheet . Many typical appliance be already list , but add more a necessary . Plug each piece of equipment you want and be able to evaluate into the monitor ; if you have old two-prong outlet you may need a three-prong adapter ( see Figure 3 ) . Fill in the watt the appliance draw both while turn on and off . The watt draw while off constitute your phantom load . Note that the worksheet consist of two tabsGeneral Rate and Time-of-Use . For most residential customer on a flat rate , the general rate tab will be sufficient for understanding your current and potential electricity us and cost . For those under a TOU rate or for those interested in analyzing electricity use and cost under such a rate , data should be enter in the Time-of-Use tab . The default cost of electricity on the worksheet be $ 0.11 per kWh for the general rate and $ 0.17 and $ 0.06 for on- and off-peak TOU rate respectively . Check your electric bill and enter the actual cost per kWh . If you know the different rate for TOU , enter those in a well ; otherwise use the default . Special case Some appliance such a fan , space heater , and hair dryer have multiple setting . You can see the saving potential for use these device at low setting by either record the watt at different setting in different row , or by recording it in the potential column . Other appliance may have large fluctuation in their electricity use when actively on . For example , a hair dryer range from 240 to 1,000 watt when on high . In this case , take the average of the high and low ( 620 watt ) and enter that into the on column . Still other appliance have such a low draw that they may not immediately register . These may include LED nightlights and carbon monoxide detector . The electricity usage of these be so small that it may not be worth capturing even over a longer period . Its most important to get accurate reading for the appliance that use the most electricity such a refrigerator or large screen television . Appliances that cycle Appliances that cycle , such a refrigerator and water heater , will need to be plug in for a long period ( ideally 24 hour ) in order to capture the true usage . To get kWh per month for cycling appliance , multiply the kWh use over that period ( most power monitor will track the time an appliance be monitor as one of it function ) time the number of those periods/month . If use the TOU tab multiply that number by the percentage of time the appliance be on-peak and off-peak and enter your result directly into Columns G and H ( On and off-peak kWh/month ) . Appliances that cycle on and off evenly throughout the day and night would be on-peak 17.9 percent of the time under the default peak hour schedule of 2:008:00 p.m. Monday through Friday . Example refrigerator 1.39 kWh over 21 hour 720 hours/month divide by 21 hour = 34.3 periods/month 1.39kWh * 34.3 = 47.68 kWh/month 47.68 kWh/month * 17.9 % on-peak = 8.53 kWh/month on-peak 47.68 kWh/month * 82.1 % off-peak = 39.15 kWh/month off-peak Example washing machine 0.18 kWh over one cycle Six cycle per week = 24 cycles/month 0.18 kWh * 24 = 4.32 kWh/month 4.32 kWh/month * 25 % on-peak = 1.08 kWh/month on-peak 4.32 kWh/month * 75 % off-peak = 3.24 kWh/month off-peak Electric clothe washer and dishwasher also have vary wash and heat setting that affect energy use . Monitoring a single use ( e.g. , one dishwasher load , or an average load of clothes ) will be enough to get the data you need if you usually use those same setting . However , you can use the monitor to test the electrical use for various setting . Then you can select the setting with the low possible electrical use that still achieve the result you want ( e.g. , clean dish , dry clothes ) . To determine energy saving , record the low set in the potential column under Watts-on ( Column H for the GR tab and Column J in the TOU tab ) . Air conditioner and dehumidifiers turn on automatically base on setting and atmospheric condition . They can be set at varying humidity level and fan speed , both of which affect electric usage . Depending on the weather , a few to several day worth of data may be need to get an accurate picture of energy use . Viewing the watt usage at different setting may help you in establish an efficient setting for your situation . Appliances that have passive and active setting Figure 4 . This stereo use 15 watt when off under a certain display set . Some appliance such a computer and printer use significantly different amount of energy when on depend on whether they be actively on or passively on . Computers be actively on when be use or not in sleep mode . Printers be actively on when print , not stand by . It be best to capture the cycling of these active and passive stage over a representative period of time a be do with refrigerator and water heater . A less accurate mean of calculate wattage when on would be to record the most common wattage ( active or passive ) or to take the average of the active and passive wattage , if they be not too far apart . Maximizing your potential saving Use the potential column to compare the cost of use an appliance at different wattage setting . The low wattage would be enter into the potential column ( Watts-on ) if you currently use the appliance at a high wattage . Next , see what you would save by cutting your phantom load . For each appliance that have a wattage draw even when turn off , enter a 0 in the potential Watts-off column . To actually achieve these cost saving , plug each of these device into an outlet strip and switch it off when youre not use the device or consider the use of a smart strip that automatically cut phantom load when the device isnt in use . The potential column can also allow you to compare the cost of run your current appliance with that of a new , more efficient version . To do this , look for the Energy Guide label or other estimate of the electricity use of the new appliance . Divide the annual estimate kWh of the new appliance by 12 . If use the TOU tab , multiply that number by the percentage of time the appliance be on-peak and off-peak and enter your result directly into Columns N and O ( On and off-peak kWh/month ) . You can also use these column to calculate the cost of use an appliance at different time of day if use the TOU tab . Some utility company charge different rate at different time of the day in order t 