Will I save money by turn off my fridge and freezer at night ? - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Friday 06 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Energy bill Will I save money by turn off my fridge and freezer at night ? Ask an expert : A reader be unsure whether he will save money with a daily shutdown on his fridge Your fridge be the single big user of electricity in your home Photo : Alamy By Kate Palmer 10:13AM BST 09 Jul 2014 Follow Comments I read your article on device run up your energy bill with great interest . How can I reduce the energy bill in our use of refrigerator . I have hear that most modern refrigerator with their modern energy save technique be suppose to save energy . But how about those that be manufacture , say , in the 1980s or before ? Some people switch off the refrigerator for a number of hour a day with the intention of reduce energy . But others say that this be a bad habit a the refrigerator use double the energy to bring it to the require temperature level . I have no idea what we should do in order to reduce energy bill when use a refrigerator . NP , Sri Lanka Gavin Munro from Efergy , a manufacturer of energy saving device , say it 's a myth that switch off the fridge or freezer for short spell will save energy . `` They be n't design to be power down regularly , '' he say . `` When a fridge freezer be turn on again , the compressor that cool the appliance down use more energy than you would save . '' There be also the food hygiene risk to consider . Related Articles Dishwasher vs wash up : which be cheap ? 09 Dec 2014 'I want an instant boiling water tap will it cost more than use a kettle ? ' 23 Dec 2014 The device quietly run up your energy bill 27 Jun 2014 Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? 05 Nov 2013 How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb 11 Apr 2014 Six quirky gadget that cut bill 15 Nov 2013 But there be several way to cut down the energy consumption of the appliance . Use the most efficient temperature setting by set your freezer at -18C and your fridge between 2C and 5C . Leave space around the back of your fridge or freezer for air to circulate . Make sure the back of your fridge be ventilate and dust free . Vacuuming this dust off 2-3 time per year can reduce energy consumption by up to 6 % . Tom Lock , a product expert at the Energy Saving Trust , say it be not recommend to switch off the fridge unless it need to be defrost . `` We wouldnt want people to switch a fridge on and off for a few hour a day for health reason due to the food be kept in there , '' he say . He add that old appliance be always less efficient than new model . Replacing a 12-year-old fridge with a new version could save around 11 in energy bill each year . Its also worth considering the location of the fridge , make sure it avoid direct sunlight from outside or other source of heat from inside the home . Even the most obvious tip , such a not keep the fridge door open longer than necessary nor place hot food in the fridge , will help save energy in the home . The average running cost for a fridge be 23.50 for the year , which be one of the high for appliance in the home . But consider the fridge be nearly always switch on , the overall cost actually isnt too bad . Got a question ? Email moneyexpert @ telegraph.co.uk or write to Telegraph Ask an Expert , 111 Buckingham Palace Road , London , SW1W 0DT - Can you really save 300 a year with a wood-burning stove ? - What be the cheap way to improve wall insullation ? - How to save 240 with LED lightbulb Telegraph Switching Service Telegraph Digital Switching Telegraph Energy Switching Find the best broadband , TV and home phone deal for you See the best gas and electricity deal and switch online Compare now Compare now Energy bill Finance Personal Finance Money save tip Household bill Kate Palmer In Energy bill The device quietly run up your energy bill How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb Should you turn wifi off at night to save money ? Will I save money by turn off my fridge at night ? Compare energy price Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Advertisement More from the web Loading Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Best of Australia Australias top 10 wildlife encounter View Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in our alternative triathlon challenge View Money Transfers Is this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast 