Buy a powerful vacuum cleaner before EU ban them , warn Which ? | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Buy a powerful vacuum cleaner before they be BANNED : New EU rule 'will outlaw best model in 10 day because they 're not eco-friendly' Five of the seven Which ? 'Best Buy ' vacuum cleaner ban from September EU say the rule will mean consumer will get good vacuum cleaner Critics claim new rule will not save energy because household will have to use their vacuum cleaner for long Manufacturers will have to regulate themselves By Rachel Rickard Straus for Thisismoney.co.uk Published : 19:31 EST , 21 August 2014 | Updated : 03:28 EST , 22 August 2014 1.8k View comment Many of the best vacuum cleaner will be take off the market from next month when a new EU rule come into force ban the most powerful model Households that need a powerful vacuum cleaner should act quickly before all of the model currently available sell out , consumer watchdog Which ? warn . From September 1 , manufacturer will not be able to make or import vacuum with a motor that exceed 1,600 watt . Scroll down for video Floored logic : Critics say the new regulation will not save energy because household will only vacuum for long to reach the same level of cleanliness But Which ? warn that many of the best model , which appear in it Best Buy table , have motor size that exceed this . Of seven award Best Buy status since January 2013 , five have motor of more than 1,600 watt , it say . More ... 'We ca n't replace your mobile because the thief do n't hit you hard enough ' : How to fight company that use lame excuse to avoid pay up You wait 20 hour for your delay holiday flight - then 2 year to get compensation a airline fight like crazy to wriggle off the hook Consumer right : How to protect yourself when shop The maximum wattage will be lower even far to 900 watt by 2017 . Current cleaner boast an average of 1,800 watt . The move have anger manufacturer , who say it will do nothing to make cleaner more environmentally friendly and will simply reduce efficiency in the home . THE VACUUM CLEANERS ABOUT TO BE SUCKED UP BY EC REGULATIONS Five of top selling vacuum cleaner on Amazon.co.uk that will be ban when new regulation come in 1 . Numatic HVR200A Henry A1 Bagged Cylinder Vacuum Cleaner . 1,200W . BANNED BY 2017 2 . Vax W90-RU-P Rapide Ultra 2 Pre-Treatment Upright Carpet and Upholstery Washer . 1,000W . BANNED BY 2017 3 . Vax U90-MA-R Air Reach Multicyclonic Upright Bagless Vacuum Cleaner . 1,200W . BANNED BY 2017 4 . Sebo X4EXTRA Automatic Upright Vacuum Cleaner . 1,300W . BANNED BY 2017 5 . Hoover Smart Pets SM1901 Bagless Upright Vacuum Cleaner . 1,900W . BANNED BY SEPTEMBER Critics say cleaner satisfy the new rule may use less power , but householder will have to use them for long so they be likely to use the same amount of electricity in the long run . For the first time , vacuum cleaner will have rating from A to G for energy use , clean performance on carpet and hard floor and dust emission . But manufacturer will create their own label and will be self-regulated . Which ? warn that it be unclear whether the rating will be test at all by an independent third party . Specification : A sample of the label that manufacturer will put on all vacuum cleaner ( Source : European Commission ) It add that manufacturer that give themselves A rating across the board often dont do so well in it own independent test , while those that do not score a highly often do well in the Which ? laboratory . Which ? only offer it list of endanger Best Buy vacuum cleaner to it pay subscriber . But popular cleaner still on sale at the moment which would be outlaw by the new rule include a Bosch Power All Floor Bagged Vacuum Cleaner , a Miele S6210 2000 Watt Bagged Cylinder Vacuum Cleaner and the Panasonic Bagged Upright Vacuum Cleaner Black 2000w . Despite his company not produce any vacuum over 1,400 watt , Sir James Dyson , the billionaire entrepreneur who pioneer bagless vacuum , be also anger by the proposal . He say the eco-labels will be mislead because they will not take into account the cost and waste of vacuum bag and filter and will give an advantage to competitor who use bag technology . He be seek a judicial review of the proposal at the European Court of Justice . As many a 126 million vacuum cleaner bag be send to landfill last year alone , accord to Dyson , assume that all the bagged vacuum cleaner use one bag a month . But the cost to household and the environment be not factor in to the new EU labelling . But the European Commission believe the new regulation will mean good vacuum cleaner for consumer . As a result of the new EU ecodesign and label regulation , consumer will also get good vacuum cleaner , European Commission spokeswoman for energy Marlene Holzner say in a blog . 'In the past there be no legislation on vacuum cleaner and company could sell poorly perform vacuum cleaner . Watch this guide on how to pick the best vacuum cleaner Now , vacuum cleaner that use a lot of energy , that pick up dust poorly , emit too much dust at the exhaust of the vacuum cleaner , be noisy or break down pre-maturely will not be allow on the market anymore . 'This mean a good clean experience and less time and money spend on vacuum clean . The new measure will be extend to other appliance , include water pump , water heater and tumble dryer . THE SURPRISE 'ENERGY GUZZLERS ' HIDING IN YOUR HOME Beware of frosty shelf : An inefficient freezer can be a drain on household ' energy consumption The European Commission be set to enforce rule that it say will make vacuum cleaner more energy efficient . But could you have other surprise energy guzzler hide in your home ? Here be a couple of common culprit : A frosty freezer : When be the last time you defrost your freezer ? Unnecessary frost force the freezer to work hard and so can push up energy bill . It wont add much on a daily basis , but it can add 100-200 to bill over a year . Spotlights : We often think nothing of cover bathroom and kitchen ceiling with spotlight , but they can add a significant cost on to energy bill . One reader Kim Fox-Johnson discover a few halogen spotlight in her kitchen be cost her almost 100 a year to run . She be now gradually replace them with LED bulb , which will cost her around 15 a year to run . Read more here . ... AND A WAY TO USE PEOPLE POWER TO FIGHT BACK ON ENERGY BILLS This be Money have join force with energyhelpline to launch The Energy Switch , which could help you save even more . Readers can team up with thousand of other people and use their collective power to negotiate a unique offer on their energy bill . This one-off special deal will give you the chance to switch to a cheap supplier ahead of any winter energy price rise and turn the table on energy firm - rather than household have to hunt out a good price , they will be compete to offer you one . The last collective switch by energyhelpline saw 50,000 people sign up and those who switch save 221 on average . > Find out more about The Energy Switch and sign up here Read more : Which vacuum cleaner ? - How to buy the best vacuum cleaner - Vacuum cleaner review - Home Appliances - Which ? Home & garden Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 1877 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . Add your comment Enter your comment By posting your comment you agree to our house rule . Submit Comment Clear More top story Enter search term : Search All Articles Share price Portfolio Newsletters Guides Savings rate Deals Calculators QUICK WAYS TO SAVE MONEY Credit card Cheaper insurance Savings account Best mortgage Cut your energy bill Current account Cheapest loan 12.50 share deal DO N'T MISS A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule If you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . Top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? Record peak cause uncertainty . Thousands of Britons lure by Cyprus property dream stung by Swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight The salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... But now saver be ask : Where be our miss pension million ? You 've hear the Footsie 's hit a record high . But what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! Jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise Buyers enjoy rock-bottom rate . The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place . I 've be bill 320 TWICE for my PPI claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ASK TONY . Is child trust fund misery about to end ? New rule allow switch to more flexible Junior Isas come into effect ? Yorkshire BS launch lead cash Isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . The best new car for 2015 From the Jaguar XE , to the MX-5 and the first ever right-hand drive Mustang If I want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? And will I earn more ? Also in this section News home page See all our late content 30 second guide City jargon in under a minute Tax advice News , guide , tip on pay less Free investment guide LATEST : 3 share Buffet would buy One to bookmark The money forum View the late post here Latest report from News Bank of England face big reputational crisis in it 320 year history after be drag into criminal probe Engineering the future : QinetiQ set for growth push under new chief Virgin Money bos scoop up 3.6m pay packet a challenger bank 's profit double Employees on course to be 400 well off this year - but the general election could pose threat to recovery , say business group Savers ' lost interest estimate at 5k per household a rock-bottom rate enter their seventh year Osborne hail 'major victory ' over Europe a Britain win landmark legal battle to protect Square Mile Bank embarks on seventh year of rock-bottom interest rate a wage pressure grow in service sector The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place Legal & General profit prop up by pension annuity sale but share slide Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas consortium in privatisation push to pay off national debt ITV dish out special dividend to investor after profit soar 39 % at the Downton Abbey broadcaster Bank of England chief foreign currency dealer be sack for '20 misjudgements ' , say Mark Carney World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the chart again - and London do n't even make top ten Morrisons treasurer Paul Coyle hand one year jail sentence for insider trading MORE HEADLINES SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve 