Statistics Finland - Energy - Energy consumption in household Statistics Finland Etusivu Frstasidan A- A+ Index Site map Feedback Contact information Search Home Statistics Metadata Data collection Products and service News Statistics Finland Home > Statistics > Energy > Energy consumption in household Suomeksi P svenska Statistics Energy Energy consumption in household Changes in these statistic Future release Releases Reviews Tables Figures Press release Available product and service Description Quality description Methodological description Concepts and definition Classifications Further information Related topic Energy Statistics 2013 Energy consumption in household Producer : Statistics Finland Data : Latest release : Energy consumption in household fell in 2013 14 Nov 2014 Energy consumption in household go down by six per cent in 2013 . Energy consumption in household , that be , heating of residential building and household appliance amount to 63,427 gigawatt hour ( GWh ) . As a result of the warm weather , the consumption of heating energy in residential building fell by six per cent . The energy consumption of household appliance go down by five per cent . For example , the low use of car interior heating decrease consumption . The data be base on Statistics Finland 's statistic on energy consumption in household . Next release : 20Nov2015 Description : Statistics on energy consumption in household describe the annual amount and structure of energy consumption relate to housing and from which source energy be acquire for heating residential building . Statistics on energy consumption in household be use concern heating of residential building and of domestic water and household appliance . Consumption of heating energy in residential building be present in the statistic accord to type of building and energy source . Energy consumption of household appliance be divide into consumption of home electrical equipment , light and cook . The same concept be use in describing energy consumption in household a in other energy statistic . Read full description > > > Keywords : electrical equipment , electricity consumption , energy consumption , energy consumption in housing , heating energy , heating of building , household appliance , household electricity , household , household ' consumption of electricity , household ' energy consumption , house . Statistics by keywords > > > Change : Release of statistic on energy consumption in household start 13 Nov 2012 Statistics Finland start to release new statistic on energy consumption in household , which describe the annual amount and structure of energy consumption relate to housing . Referencing instruction : Statistics : Energy consumption in household [ e-publication ] . ISSN=2323-329X . Helsinki : Statistics Finland [ refer : 3.3.2015 ] . Access method: 