How do electric kettle work ? | The science of heating water You be here : Home page > Home life > Electric kettle Home A-Z index Get the book Follow u Random article Timeline Teaching guide About u Privacy policy Advertisement Electric kettle Tweet by Chris Woodford . Last update : December 18 , 2014 . C ar run on gasoline ... and people run on tea and coffee ( at least in my house ) ! If you drink coffee or tea by the bucket , you 'll be glad someone once have the gumption to invent a super-efficient way of turn cold water into hotnamely , the electric kettle ( also know a an electric tea kettle ) . Fill it with water , plug it in , switch it on , and in a couple of minute you have pip hot water ready for drink or cook . How exactly do a kettle work ? Why do it take so long to boil ? And how do it know when to switch itself off ? Let 's take a closer look ! Photo : An electric kettle be a convenient way of make heat energy from electricity . It 's a water heater , but it 's also an energy conversion device that illustrate one of the most basic law of physic : the conservation of energy ( discuss far below ) . What be an electric kettle ? Kettles be among the simple of household appliance . Lift the lid and peer inside and you 'll see , at the very bottom of the water container , a coil of thick metal call the heating element . When you plug the kettle into an electrical outlet , a large electric current flow into the heating element . The element's resistance ( the tendency any material have to stop electricity flow through it ) turn the electrical energy into heat . In other word , the element get hot . Since it 's in direct contact with cold water , the heat pass to the water by conduction and rapidly warms it up too . Photo : Top : The heating element inside the base of the electric kettle shown in our upper photo . Bottom : In some kettle , the element be conceal from view , under the inside floor , to stop it from `` furring up '' with limescale . This be a neater design , but it do make for a much noisier kettle . How long do a kettle take to boil ? Do you ever get frustrate at how long it take your kettle to boil ? Do n't ! The amazing thing be be that your kettle boil a quickly a it doesand here's why . If you keep pump heat energy into the bottom of a kettle ( fast than heat be escape through the top and the side ) , sooner or late the water inside it will boil . A basic law of physic call the conservation of energy tell u that if you need to boil a liter of water , start from the same temperature , you 'll always have to add the same amount of energy to do it . Whether you use a camp fire or a kettle , a microwave or some amazing stir device in the manner of James Prescott Joule ( see box below ) , the amount of energy you have to put in to boil the water be exactly the same . Photo : You can boil water in all kind of wayseven in a simple pan on an open fire or stovebut an enclose kettle be usually fast : it stop heat and steam escape , allow pressure to build up , and help the water to boil more quickly . Let 's say you start with 1 liter ( roughly 1 kilogram , 2.2 lb ) of cold water at about 10C ( 50F ) and you want to raise it 90C to it boiling point ( 100C or 212F ) . The amount of energy you need be 4.2 1000 gram 90 degree = 378,000 joule or 378 kJ . The mysterious `` 4.2 '' be a constant value call the specific heat capacity of water . Every material have a different specific heat capacity , which be simply the amount of energy you have to put in to raise the temperature of one gram of the material by one degree centigrade . You need to add 4.2 joule of energy to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1C , so water 's specific heat capacity be 4.2 J/g/C . 378kJ to boil a liter of water be rather more energy than you might think . An energy-efficient lamp rat at 10 watt use 10 joule of energy every second ( because 1 watt mean use one joule per second ) , so it would take it 37,800 secondsabout 10.5 hoursto use a much energy a our kettle us in a single boil ! If you 're use an electric kettle rat at 2400 watt , that mean it 's consume 2400 joule of electrical energy per second and put ( roughly ) the same amount of energy into the water a heat each second a well . Divide 378,000 by 2400 and you find it take the kettle about 160 second to do the job , which sound about rightan electric kettle generally do take about 2-3 minute to boil . An old proverb say a watched pot ( kettle ) never boil , but that date from the time when most people use to boil water on hideously inefficient open coal fire . An electric kettle can boil water in just a couple of minute because it can add heat energy to the water much more quickly and efficiently than an open fire ( which allow heat to escape in all direction ) . If your kettle be rat at something like 2400 watt ( W ) and you be use a UK power supply of 240 volt ( V ) , that mean the current passing through the element would be 2400 / 240 or 10 amp ( A ) . By household standard , that 's a hefty current : in comparison , the little charger I have for my iPod draw a maximum current of 0.67 ampsthe kettle be use 15 time more ! So the answer to how an electric kettle work so quickly be by use a relatively large electric current . The amount of heat produce be proportional to the current ( a 10 amp current would produce twice a much heat a a 5 amp current pass through the same heating element if the voltage be constant ) , so big current produce more heatand heat thing much more quicklythan small one . Photo : The base unit of a cordless electric kettle . The electrical terminal be hide behind three spring-loaded plastic flap ( the three black slot in the little tower on the right ) to reduce the chance of water get in . How do instant hot water boiler work ? If you 're tire of wait and you want your kettle to boil fast , there be only two thing you can do . One be to use more electric currentin other word , buy a more powerful kettle ; the other use be to use less water . `` Instant '' water boilers/dispensers ( such a the Breville Hot Cup and the Morphy Richards Meno ) , which can boil as little a a cupful of water really quickly , combine these method . They use a more powerful heating element than an ordinary kettle ( typically 3000 watt or more ) and they 're design so the element can operate safely in contact with only a small amount of water . If you 're boil only ( say ) a quarter of a liter of water , you need only a quarter a much energysay 100,000 joule . And if you 're supply that energy with a 3000 watt element , do the math and you 'll find you can do it in about 30 second instead of 2.5 minute . Can you see another great benefit here ? If you're boil an entire kettle to make just a single hot drink , you're effectively waste three quarter of the energy you 're consume . Boiling only a much water a you need save you a significant amount of moneyand help the environment too . How do a kettle know when to switch off ? Early electric kettle come with built-in danger : it be relatively easy to switch them on , go off and do a chore or two , and then forget about them . If you be lucky , when you come back a few minute late , you 'd find your kitchen fill with cloud of steam . If you be unlucky , your kettle element might burn out , blow a fuse , or even start a fire . Thankfully , virtually all modern kettle switch themselves off automatically use thermostat ( mechanical , electrical , or electronic device that respond to change in temperature ) . Many be base on design develop by English inventor John C. Taylor , whose company Otter Controls and Strix Ltd have develop more than a billion thermostat of this kind worldwide . How do they work ? The simple one be mechanical and use a bimetallic thermostat ( describe in our main article on thermostat ) integrate into the element unit at the bottom of the kettle . It consist of a disc of two different metal bond tightly together , one of which expands fast than the other a the temperature rise . Normally the thermostat be curve in one direction , but when the hot water reach boil point , the steam produce hit the bimetallic thermostat and make it suddenly snap and flex in the opposite direction , a bit like an umbrella turn inside out in the wind . When the thermostat snap open , it push a lever that trip the circuit , cut off the electric current , and safely switch off the kettle . More sophisticated kettle thermostat ( use in system such a the fashionable Marco ber coffee boiler ) be entirely electronic and allow water to be heat to precise temperature and maintain there indefinitely by repeatedly switch the current on and off . `` The Mechanical Equivalent of Heat '' Electric kettle might seem horribly mundane , but they 're worth reading and write about because they illustrate brilliantly one of the most fundamental physical law of our universe : you can convert one kind of energy into another , but you ca n't create energy out of thin air or make it vanish into nothing . This hugely important idea be call the conservation of energy and English physicist James Prescott Joule ( 18891889 ) be one of the first people to get to the heart of it . Joule devise a brilliant experiment . He attach a heavy weight ( 1 ) to a rope loop over a pulley ( 2 ) , so a the weight fell , the rope turn an axle ( 3 ) and stir a paddle wheel inside a container full of water ( 4 ) . He reason that the `` mechanical '' energy he add to the water in this way would turn into heat energy , warm the water up very slightly . After repeat experiment , he successfully prove that the energy ( or , a he call it , vi viva ) lose by the fall weight be exactly equal to the energy gain by the warming water . In this way , Joule confirm that mechanical energy ( or work ) and heat energy be interchangeable , publishing the result in a famous paper call The Mechanical Equivalent of Heat , which be still consider one of the most important confirmation of the theory of conservation of energy . Artwork : The experiment Joule carry out to find the mechanical equivalent of heat . Find out more The mechanical equivalent of heat : This introductory article from Wikipedia include a very good illustration of Joule 's apparatus . James Prescott Joule : The Wikipedia article about Joule contains a photo of the same apparatus from the London Science Museum . Great Experiments in Physics : Firsthand Accounts from Galileo to Einstein by Morris H. Shamos . Dover , 1987 . Chapter 12 of this excellent book contain a reproduction of some of Joule 's original paper from 1845 and 1850 , explain precisely how the experiment be do . Tweet Find out more On this website You might like these other article on our site covering similar topic : Electricity Heat Heating element Articles Burning Desire for Efficiency by Tom Murphy . As I explain above , it take the same amount of energy to heat a certain quantity of water by the same temperature , however you choose to do it . But some method be more efficient than others . As Tom Murphy explain in this great blog post , electric kettle be significantly more efficient than stove-top kettle and microwave . Which be more energy efficientboiling water use an electric kettle , a kettle on a gas hob or a microwave oven ? : The Guardian , Notes & Queries , 2011 . Guardian reader offer their various opinion on the efficiency of different water-boiling method . Patents If you 're interested in real technical nitty gritty , why not take a look at a few of the many patent cover how kettle-like appliance work ? Here be four I 've pick out , but you'll find lot more in the record . These link take you to Google Patents , which be very clear and easy to use ; alternatively , you can look up the patent number with the search engine on the US Patent and Trademark Office , which be always the definitive source . Fuse by Maurice Lee Warner : A modified fuse to stop electric percolator from boil dry . US patent 1794045 , Feb 24 , 1931 . Electric coffee pot by Ambrose Olds . An electric coffee percolator that maintain your brew at a set temperature . US patent 1998732 . April 23 , 1935 Electric water-boiling container have switch-on dry and stream sensitive thermally responsive control unit by John C. Taylor . US patent 4,357,520 , November 2 , 1982 . Thermally-sensitive control arrangement for container provide with electric immersion heater by John C. Taylor et al . US patent 4,621,186 . November 4 , 1986 . Videos An Inventor 's Story : Dr John C Taylor : In this short Science Museum video , John Taylor describe how he design and improve bimetallic kettle thermostat and turn the disadvantage of plastic to his advantage . Sponsored link Please do NOT copy our article onto blog and other website Text copyright Chris Woodford 2011 . All right reserve . Full copyright notice and term of use . Follow u Rate this page Please rate or give feedback on this page and I will make a donation to WaterAid . Share this page Press CTRL + D to bookmark this page for late or tell your friend about it with : Cite this page Woodford , Chris . ( 2011 ) Electric kettle . Retrieved from http : //www.explainthatstuff.com/how-electric-kettles-work.html . [ Accessed ( Insert date here ) ] More to explore on our website ... Communications Computers Electricity & electronics Energy Engineering Environment Gadgets Home life Materials Science Tools & instrument Transportation Home A-Z index Get the book Follow u Random article 