Slow cooker vs oven : How much cheaper ? - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Thursday 05 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Household bill 'How much cheaper be a slow cooker than an oven ? ' Ask an expert : The late burn question in our series be on the true financial benefit of a slow cooker Slow cooker cost around 20 By Sophie Christie 7:20AM GMT 22 Nov 2013 Follow Comments My husband buy a slow cooker and insist it be much , much cheap to have it on for eight hour to cook our stew rather than cook for an hour with the main oven ( even this involves much faffing around in the morning ) . He 's very insistent . Is he right ? AT Slow cooker be , a the name suggest , design to cook food such a stew or curry slowly usually for a minimum of six hour . Depending on the setting , cook can take as long a 10 hour , make the slow cooker ideal for those who want to be able to leave their food cook without have to keep an eye on it . Slow cooker , which have see sale rise by 55 per cent over the past two year and typically cost 20 to buy , might be more practical for those with a busy schedule , but be it cheap to use than an oven ? Consumer price comparison site uSwitch say that the microwave be the most energy-efficient way to cook food , follow by a hob and lastly an oven . `` Slow cooker can also be an energy-efficient option they use just a little more energy than a traditional light bulb '' , the website say . Related Articles 'What be the cheap way to improve wall insulation ? ' 12 Nov 2013 Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? 05 Nov 2013 Should I switch to a 2017 fix energy tariff ? 06 Nov 2013 Slow cooker sale soar in austerity Britain 12 Nov 2013 Dishwasher vs wash up : which be cheap ? 09 Dec 2014 'I want an instant boiling water tap will it cost more than use a kettle ? ' 23 Dec 2014 The Centre for Sustainable Energy ( www.cse.org.uk ) estimate the average electricity usage of an electric oven between 2-2.2kWh , while a microwave use between 0.6-1.5kWh . A slow cooker us approximately 0.7kWh over the eight hour . Money-saving website goodtoknow.co.uk say the electric oven be the most expensive appliance to use in the home . Using it for an hour each day will cost 2.46 a week , or 127.92 over a year . Other website would agree that the oven use far more energy than other cooking appliance , like microwave and slow cooker . Energy comparison website Uswitch say : `` Slow cooker can also be an energy-efficient option - they use just a little more energy than a traditional light bulb , and you can leave your food to cook slowly while you get on with other things. `` It be undeniable that microwave be the cheap way to cook food , but a stew need to , well , stew . So a microwave be out of the equation . Between an oven and a slow cooker , which would be cheap ? Electricity cost around 15p per kWh , so use an oven for an hour to cook your stew will cost around 30p - depend on your temperature . A slow cooker , which us around 0.7kWh over the eight hour cook time a an average of , will cost a third of the price , at 10.5p . Of course , it depend on the temperature you cook at . We 've assume that the slow cooker be on a low setting - a little under 100w - and that the oven be also turn down . So in answer to AT 's question , the slow cooker come out as the cheap appliance to use , a well a be a useful way to cook if you have a busy schedule . Although it require - a you say - more faffing in the morning , it do make your stew tastier than if it be cook in the oven , and save you a few penny . Do you have a question about household bill , house price , interest rate , invest or anything else to do with money ? Email moneyexpert @ telegraph.co.uk See the range of slow cooker available on Amazon.co.uk Telegraph Switching Service Telegraph Digital Switching Telegraph Energy Switching Find the best broadband , TV and home phone deal for you See the best gas and electricity deal and switch online Compare now Compare now Household bill Personal Finance Money save tip Food and Drink Sophie Christie In Household bill The device quietly run up your energy bill How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb The legal way to avoid pay the TV licence fee Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? Compare energy price Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Cheapest Gas & Electricity Deals Advertisement More from the web Loading Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in a kayak race View Cathay Pacific Is your company trading with Hong Kong or China ? Read on View Best of Australia Whale watching in Hervey Bay : top thing to do in Queensland View Telegraph Travel Collection Save up to 60 % on cruise in our Early Spring Saver promotion . 7 night cruise from just 379pp View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast 