Using the Energy Star calculator for pool pump ENERGY STAR Calculator Shows How Pool Pumps Can Save Hundreds of Dollars in Yearly Energy Costs By Robert Huang , Lauren Mattison of Cadmus and Steve Ryan , EPA ENERGY STAR Program The ENERGY STAR program , run by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) , be well know for promoting energy-saving product include refrigerator , TVs , and air conditioner . In 2013 , ENERGY STAR start certify in-ground pool pumps.Pumps that have earn ENERGY STAR certification can run at set different speed ( i.e. , two-speed pump ) or be program to operate at the appropriate speed ( i.e. , variable speed pump ) . By use low speed , ENERGY STAR certify pool pump can save homeowner hundred of dollar every year . Since the certification of pool pump begin in February 2013 , more than 100 pool pump model have earn the ENERGY STAR , include model make by lead manufacturer such a : Pentair Aquatic Systems Hayward Industries , Inc . Speck Pumps-Pool Products , Inc . Waterway Plastics , Inc . SpectraLight Technologies Zodiac Pool Systems NOTE : ENERGY STAR certify pool pump be limit to in-ground residential pool pump between 0.5 and 4 horsepower . ENERGY STAR Pool Pump Calculator Makes the Case for Efficiency As with many advanced , more efficient product , ENERGY STAR certify pool pump cost more to purchase . However , that incremental cost be easily recover in energy saving in less than 2 year . ENERGY STAR have create a saving calculator to make it easy for pool professional and home owner to see the benefit of an ENERGY STAR certify pool pump . The calculator , available at www.energystar.gov/poolpumps , allow you to estimate potential saving base on these input show in Figure 1 ( below ) : Location Electric rate Months per year of pool operation Pool size , in gallon ( which can be determine with the include pool size estimator ) Size and operation of conventional pump ENERGY STAR pump be consider Figure 1 : Sample of the ENERGY STAR Pool Pump Calculator Input Page If any of these input be not know , the calculator default to value vet by industry expert . Pool pump professional and other advanced user can see all of the calculation and adjust assumption such a energy factor and flow rate . Pump cost and utility rebate can also be enter to determine the net saving and payback period for the ENERGY STAR pump . As show in the calculator result page in Figure 2 ( below ) , an ENERGY STAR certify pool pump can : Save approximately 74 % of the pool pump energy use or $ 320 annually . Pay back in less than 1.7 year . Save more than $ 2,000 over the 10-year lifetime of the pool pump . Reduce greenhouse gas emission from power plant by two ton annually . Figure 2 : Sample of the ENERGY STAR Pool Pump Calculator Results Page In addition to these saving , many electric utility company offer rebate to customer who buy ENERGY STAR certify pool pump . As show in Figure 3 , these utility incentive range from $ 100 to $ 400 . Please check with you local utility to see if you can receive an incentive by choosing an ENERGY STAR pump and submit a simple application form . It 's a No Brainer to Buy ENERGY STAR In addition to thousand of dollar in lifetime saving and generous utility incentive , ENERGY STAR certify pool pump be also quieter and last longer than conventional pool pump make them an easy choice for new or replacement pool pump . See list of certified pool pump and learn more at www.energystar.gov/poolpumps . CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE POOL PUMP CALCULATOR ( Excel file ) Figure 3 : Examples of Some Utility Rebates for ENERGY STAR Certified In-Ground Pool Pumps ( Please consult your local utility for currently available rebate ) 