Government plan to install smart meter in our home 'will leave u open to cyber attack ' | Daily Mail Online Home U.K . U.S . News Sport TV & Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Video Coffee Break Travel Fashion Finder News Home Arts Headlines Pictures Most read News Board Wires My Profile Logout Login DailyMail show ad EXCLUSIVE : The candid camera of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney which capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger and Steve McQueen on film BREAKING NEWS : Harrison Ford rush to hospital in critical condition after crash his vintage plane into golf course No parking fine if you overstay by just 10 minute : New law next month will give you extra time before warden pounce Roy Keane accuse of road rage : Ex-Manchester United captain summon to court over argument with taxi driver What your PEE say about your health : A clear stream mean you 're drink too much coffee , while red urine may be a sign of cancer Fare dodger who forge his own fake first class train ticket at home use a computer be order to pay back 17,000 - or go to prison for a year Lynch mob justice Indian-style : Gang break into prison and kidnap man accuse of raping student - then strip him naked , drag him four mile and beat him to death Miraculous moment a passing doctor save a stranger 's life after he crash motorbike into a lorry and cut open his throat Mexican schoolboy who be so badly beat by bully he spend 16 month in hospital with brain damage dy after fulfil his last wish - to see the sea Me , gorgeous ? I feel a little bit awkward about it if I 'm honest , say Labour star Chuka Umunna Investigation launch after staff cremate WRONG BODY at funeral of Tory MEP Philip Bradbourn - because other dead man 's name be Bradburn Stepbrother of student Becky Watts , 16 , appear in court charge with her murder - a new picture show them together at their parent ' wedding 'Expect many more politician to be investigate ' : MP say veteran Tory Harvey Proctor will be first of many Westminster figure probe over historic abuse NHS trust that botched lawyer 's appendix surgery leave her infertile try to wriggle out of big payout - 'because she would have earn less if she 'd have a baby' Losing even ONE hour of sleep can make you fat : Being slightly tired mean you eat an extra 200 calorie the next day - the equivalent of a bagel Ram raider steal 120,000 vintage race car by smashing through showroom window with Land Rover - and be gone in 60 second 'Definitely not marriage material . Wo n't grow long hair , ever ' : Indian girl post VERY honest 'marriage CV ' after her parent post a profile of her on date site to try and find her a husband 19 more year ' good health for rich girl : Newborns from wealthy area will reach 71 before her life be limit by disability or illness compare to 52 in poorer district Dinosaur-mad schoolgirl , 8 , take on Clarks over 'sexist ' shoe range cover in flower and butterfly Builder stab colleague with his fork at work Christmas party because he take an ONION RING from his plate during Wetherspoons meal Why fifty be the most expensive age of our life : Care cost hit 'sandwich generation' Plane carrying 130 skid off runway and catch fire at New York 's La Guardia Airport during blizzard Chelsea fan 'caught chanting the N-word and anti-Semitic slur ' in new race hate storm follow League Cup final Pound now buy more than 1.38 a - and sterling 'could reach 1.50 this year' Previous Next Government plan to install smart meter in our home 'will leave u open to cyber attack' Foreign computer hacker will be able to target individual home Campaigners say it go to far and creates 'a spy in every home' Home information could be 'sold ' to burglar and identity thief By Gerri Peev for the Daily Mail Published : 07:38 EST , 9 June 2012 | Updated : 07:40 EST , 9 June 2012 242 View comment Intelligence chief have warn that plan to install smart energy meter in every house will leave family vulnerable to terrorist attack . According to the Governments listen agency GCHQ , the plan will create a strategic vulnerability , give foreign computer hacker the opportunity to target individual home , municipal building and even whole district . Described by security expert a the modern day equivalent of a nuclear strike , hacker would be able to switch off meter from overseas , cut off target from the national grid . Intrusion ? Smart meter could be instal in every property - and could lead to a cyber attack Privacy campaigner be already seek to block the plan on the ground that the meter will create a spy in every home . The meter will collect detail about how people use electricity and gas , allow snooper to , for example , scrutinise what time someone go to bed , wash or us their computer . More ... Previous 1 Next Upgrade to internet 'backbone ' mean there be more web address available than there be star in the entire ... Share this article Share The information will be beam to a central database hold by a utility firm , make it a tempt target for hacker . A further concern be that the meter could allow individual household to be cut off by Whitehall or energy company at time of future fuel shortage . The Foundation for Information Policy Research think-tank , have warn the Government that it should remove the ability to switch off power remotely to prevent attack that cut off customer , whether these be commit for blackmail , or a a hostile act against Britains critical national infrastructure by a foreign power or a terrorist group . Thought it out ? The plan for the 'smart meter ' be first set out by Ed Miliband when he be Energy Secretary Ross Anderson , a Cambridge computer science professor and chairman of the think-tank , say : GCHQ have also tell u they be worry about it . Once you have the ability to turn off meter remotely , then it become a strategic vulnerability . If the Iranians or Chinese want to attack Britain , they could do so easily through smart meter . This be the modern day equivalent of a nuclear strike . It be understand similar warning have be pass to minister by security chief . Smart meter have already be instal in around 400,000 home by British Gas . All utility firm will be instal meter between 2014 and 2019 . Information from the 46million gas and electricity meter will be collect every 30 minute and beam from a box in the home to the central database . The plan , introduce by Ed Miliband when he be Energy Secretary and champion by Lib Dem Chris Huhne when he hold the job , have be justify on the ground that the meter will help customer cut their bill and government meet environmental target . But Professor Anderson also warn that government could use the information to turn off power if the UK suffers from energy shortage in the future . Critics be also warn that corrupt official , call centre staff or hacker could sell information to burglar or identity thief . They be also concern that energy company will be able to use the data to manipulate tariff . A Whitehall source say : This be a bonkers policy that have to be stop before it get out of hand . It be be sell a a consumer-friendly device to help you save power but in the wrong hand , it will be a total disaster . We will see power blackout time with the help of the information collect from smart meter . This could mean risk of identity theft , real time surveillance and unwanted publicity Nick Pickles . of civil liberty group Big Brother Watch , have write to minister to warn them of the risk associate with smart meter . He say : We be witness a massive intrusion into what go on in million of home . This come when there be increase surveillance of our society . Smart meter be a step towards our home become the next line of attack for state snooper . Anna Fielder , of watchdog Privacy International , say : This could mean risk of identity theft , real time surveillance , unwanted publicity , profile or target for commercial purpose and also potential discriminatory practice by power company target tariff to maximise profit . As these be essentially communication device , transmit data over a network , there be the associate security risk if the right measure be not take . A spokesman for the Department for Energy say : The rollout of meter will help put people in control of their energy use and eliminate the cause of a huge number of complaint inaccurate bill . He add : We also want to make absolutely sure that weve got key aspect such a privacy , security , and consumer protection right and thats what we be currently consult on and work through with industry and consumer group . Share or comment on this article MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS Previous 1 2 3 4 Next ISIS video emerges of spy drive to his crucifixion ... Watch a koala pose for photo a it stroll down a main ... GRAPHIC CONTENT : Grandmother bitten on face by pitbull Man straps mentos to himself and jump into bath full of ... Full of pride ! Lion manages to open family 's car door Snake vs spider ! Redback traps SNAKE in it web ( related ) Iraqi troop fight ISIS extremist outside city of Tikrit Geordie Shore 's Charlotte Crosby show off her bod on her ... Scottish backpacker meet mystery man after public appeal See the jungle on Death Island where Bali Nine will be ... Octopus attempt dare escape from his aquarium tank Mark Zuckerberg reveals his hiring secret at Facebook Q & A D+ . Well present work girl . Next time , a little more ... Woman with crippling headache stab herself in the skull ... Why be deadly REDBACKS hiding in our grape ? Shoppers find ... Mark Zuckerberg 's secret to acing a job interview : Facebook ... EXCLUSIVE : Mother reunite with daughter nearly 18 year ... 'The little girl either fell asleep or just slip down ... Lynch mob justice Indian-style : Gang break into prison and ... 'They do n't let me see my grandson George ' : Prince Charles ' ... Is this ISIS ' sickest execution video yet ? Now terrorists ... Hurled to his death in front of a baying mob : ISIS ... Stepbrother of 16-year-old Becky Watts be charge with her ... Former prime minister Julia Gillard post throwback ... MOST READ NEWS Previous Next Comments ( 240 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . Who be this week 's top commenter ? Find out now Bing Site Web Enter search term : Search Like DailyMail Follow MailOnline Follow DailyMail +1 DailyMail Do n't Miss Pretty fly ! Kim Kardashian nip out to Lanvin show in see-through mesh dress ... with open black cape barely protect her modesty She kiss a girl ! Jackie 'O ' Henderson celebrate Mardi Gras with video of her locking lip with a lady in the name of gender equality Happy to kiss a woman Any day now ! Lara Bingle look the epitome of motherhood with one protective hand over her bump a rumour swirl she 's expect a boy with SamWorthington 'I 've fall deeper in love ! ' Tim Robards tell Anna Heinrich and ask her to 'stop kissing Maureen ' when I 'm A Celebrity contestants get letter from home The big reveal ! Kim Kardashian unveil an edgy new look a she step out in Paris sporting dramatic slicked-back platinum blonde lock Racy at 45 ! Jennifer Lopez show off her cleavage and tummy in black bra cover only by a netted crop top Glow perfume hit maker have have a great year Back in her skinny jean ! New mom Mila Kunis display her enviably tone figure in a stylish ensemble just month after give birth Mila looking slim Harrison Ford rush to hospital in critical condition after crash his vintage plane into golf course The 72-year-old actor 's vintage plane crash 'We still talk from time to time ' : Nick Jonas say he 'll always love ex Delta Goodrem but be 'thrilled ' that chapter of his life be over as he jet into her native Australia She 's a Rebel Heart ! Veteran entertainment reporter Richard Wilkins keep on his toe by Madonna in game of linguistic tennis while promote new album 'I could n't think of anything worse ' : Sam Frost reveals she turn down offer to star a Australia 's first Bachelorette after last year 's Bachelor fiasco 'My first day at school ! ' Heidi Klum share TBT snap of her heading to class while teaching youngster to 'fulfill their dreams' Words of advice Would YOU like flawless skin like Gwyneth Paltrow and Katie Holmes ? Believe it or not it 's within your grasp Sponsored article Workout buddy ! Reese Witherspoon and Naomi Watts look fabulously fit a they 're spot leave the same gym in LA Curvy Kate Upton show off her pale lean leg in short black dress while out to lunch in Beverly Hills Kate Upton just get back from a whirlwind trip Kris Jenner be the ultimate third-wheel a Kim Kardashian put on an affectionate FROW display with Kanye West at Balmain At Balmain fashion show Kim Kardashian and Kanye West continue their romantic reunion in Paris a they pucker up for a passionate smooch at the Louis Vuitton Foundation Blonde ambition ! Kim Kardashian offer a glimpse of her newly-dyed platinum lock a she reunite with Kanye West in Paris Is this her WORST look yet ? As Kim Kardashian unveil her new 'do we chart her hair-volution from brunette wave to black bob ... and the time she have bang Dead Ringer ! Newly blonde Kim Kardashian bear an uncanny resemblance to Legolas ... a the Internet go wild with hilarious meme Has Kim Kardashian lose her identity ? Top hairdresser react to star 's new blonde look ... say extreme change mean 'something dramatic be go on' EXCLUSIVE : 'I do n't diet and I do n't weigh myself ' : Shahs Of Sunset 's Asifa Mirza reveals she stay 50 kilogram the hard way , by working out RHOBH star Brandi Glanville take a break from the drama a she parade her fabulous figure in a fishnet bikini at the beach She will soon be fire Anything you can do ! Jared Leto prove Kim Kardashian be n't the only star with blonde ambition a he unveil new platinum 'do at Balmain PFW show 'It 's so hard to get her to sit down ! ' Model Cara Delevingne 's makeup artist Lloyd Simmonds reveals he never hide her tattoo but cover up Cat McNeil 's ink Losing even ONE hour of sleep can make you fat : Being slightly tired mean you eat an extra 200 calorie the next day - the equivalent of a bagel Want to sleep in John Mayer 's bedroom ? The singer 's humble former home in Atlanta go on sale at the bargain price of $ 469K Home where the heart be Woman Behaving Badly ! Dressed down Leslie Ash jokingly brandish her walking stick during rare out in London Using a walking stick 'I Skype my dog ! ' Hugh Jackman open up on how he use technology in every day life ... to keep in touch with adorable pup Dali and Allegra The love boat ? Khloe Kardashian and on-off boyfriend French Montana take to the high sea on Key West holiday Having fun together 'I find myself google Aussie slang ' : Hugh Jackman admit he have have trouble keeping up with phrase from home country during GMA appearance 'Always take pic to send to Bae ' : Benji Madden send wife Cameron Diaz a cute Instagram snap of him cuddle up with a puppy while in Australia Neil Patrick Harris look glum on date night with husband David Burtka after reveal he have no plan to host Oscars again He be n't cheer up Mommy 's little dancer ! Kourtney Kardashian have her hand full a she carry daughter Penelope to class ( but there 's still no sign of Reign ) Mayhem on street of Paris : Kendall Jenner almost trample a Kimye cause street block during Fashion Week Steps out from catwalk Mickey 's man-bag strike again ! Mr Rourke step out with his favourite Louis Vuitton satchel a he do lunch in Beverly Hills Lots of the same outfit Jewish boy parody hit music video from Robin Thicke , Pharrell Williams and Frozen to create VERY un-Orthodox Bar Mitzvah invitation Game , set and match ? Aussie tennis ace Nick Kyrgios rumour of romance with aspire buxom model Chloe Granger a pair pose for a snap together Geordie Shore star Holly Hagan post a busty bikini selfie a she continue to flaunt her slim figure online Holly Hagan do n't seem to be get bore 'These be the consequence ' : Jesinta Campbell weigh in on Bali Nine execution admit that while she disagree with the death penalty 'that 's the law' FIRST LOOK ! Cara Delevingne transform from model to movie star in new Face Of An Angel trailer with Kate Beckinsale 'She 's leave everything and all of u ! ' Iggy Azalea fan speculate songstress delete Instagram account after her page abruptly go down From strut down the catwalk in Kanye 's fashion show to starring in Carine Roitfeld 's Fashion Book : Is Kylie Jenner make a bid for Kendall 's career ? Kim Richards 'fabricated story about Lisa Rinna 's husband Harry Hamlin harboring a secret ' during dramatic glass mash row on RHOBH Kendall Jenner lead supermodel charge a Karlie Kloss , Alessandra Ambrosio and Jourdan Dunn join others for Balmain 's star-studded PFW show 'I do n't want to win the award ' : Iggy Azalea say she be RELIEVED to be beat out by Eminem for rap Grammy ... even after his controversial lyric about her Feeling a little blue ? Imogen Anthony show off newly dye tress on lunch date with boyfriend Kyle Sandilands Has a blue tone hairdo 'Lets fight about it ' : Kristin Cavallari bite back after teammate of NFL player husband Jay Cutler say Olivia Munn be hot Chrissy Teigen brave snowstorm in nothing but a crop top and pencil skirt a she head to New York TV show Model seem unfazed by the inclement weather PICTURED : Cara Delevingne spot with rumour girlfriend St. Vincent back in January ... a it 's claim pair have be secretly date for month 'I think they copy u ! ' Katie and Nikki fuming after rival Jane and Emma rip off their mascarpone ice cream to score big on MKR redemption round Giving new meaning to Flashdance ! Grant Gustin and Tom Cavanagh waltz with each other in costume while on a footbridge film for The Flash Lesbian creates a unique sex toy which serve a an at-home method of artificial insemination - while pleasuring the user 'Woke up fake it ! ' Katie Price display the result of her new spray tan ... after GROPING Louise Hazel on new game show Giving fan an eyefull 'We ai n't worry ' : Christina Milian wow in floral pencil dress a she party with newly single Karrueche Tran Helped pal Karrueche Tran forget her trouble Liam Gallagher enjoy carefree afternoon with girlfriend Debbie Gwyther ... after be fin $ 5,000 for missing another child support hearing Content North West get a cuddle from glamorous granny Kris Jenner a they head out for dinner in Paris Inside the shop where $ 6k silicone sex doll be mould , paint and dress to fulfil men 's every fantasy , but maker say people collect them a art Duncan Bannatyne ca n't stop smile a he enjoy romantic dinner date with former Miss Great Britain Michelle Evans ... before leaving restaurant hand-in-hand Newlywed Ashley Tisdale go for glam in black a she bring dapper husband along to Ted Baker event in London The knot in September Video capture the heartwarming moment a high school senior skip graduation to surprise her grandmother who be recover from brain surgery Going for gold : Ashley Roberts get hand-painted from head-to-toe and don dazzle bronze dress in aid of Red Nose Day Former Pussycat Doll Alexa Chung brighten up a classic black dress with sheer yellow sweater a she celebrate beauty launch with Pixie Geldof A very stylish dinner No post-dinner bloat here ! Cara Santana show off her taut ab in a form-fitting crop top a she din with beau Jesse Metcalfe 'I be struggle ' : Kate Bosworth reveals how therapy and her celeb friend help her through her rocky twenty a she pose for stun new shoot Paris Hilton step out for first time since brother Conrad plead guilty to assault after 10-hour airplane ride from hell where he menace passenger 'He 's at a breaking point . He ca n't take too much more . ' Nick Gordon 's mother join Dr. Phil a he stag dramatic INTERVENTION with Bobbi Kristina 's out-of-control boyfriend 'To be gay in my community be a condemnable offence ' : Caitlin Stasey reveals struggle with self harm and sexuality grow up in Australia Too sexy ! India ban Fifty Shades of Grey after toned-down version fails to pass censor committee India 's censor board block the release A platinum blonde Joker ? Jared Leto debut new hair color for Suicide Squad which be nothing like what Heath Ledger and Jack Nicholson do Flying solo ... David Walliams put on a brave face a he hop off helicopter after split from model wife Lara Stone Agreed to trial separation Paris can you handle it ? Kelly Rowland take the plunge in black leather jumpsuit at Barbara Bui 's Fashion Week show Trying to induce ? Heavily pregnant Mila Jovovich display her bulge bump on a hike with husband Paul W.S . Anderson ... just weeks away from her due date PICTURE EXCLUSIVE : Michelle Keegan take beachfront snap a fun-loving receptionist Tracy in gritty new drama Ordinary Lies From strut down the catwalk in Kanye 's fashion show to starring in Carine Roitfeld 's Fashion Book : Is Kylie Jenner make a bid for Kendall 's career ? Giuliana Rancic seen for first time after apologize for'racist ' comment about Zendaya 's dreadlock Spotted house hunt in Beverly Hills Not a big tipper ? Gwen Stefani flash a whole $ 10 a she approach a valet stand outside pricey Beverly Hills restaurant The Palm Kendall Jenner head out with friend Gigi Hadid after her jubilant return to H & M at Paris Fashion Week follow recent illness Dressed fairly casually Supermodel Kendall Jenner look runway ready in peach thigh-high split skirt and bold silver crop top a she leave Paris hotel Looked runway ready Reese Witherspoon stick to her award season workout regime a she hit the gym for her daily session in tight legging Looks great in gym gear Gearing up for the arrival ! Pregnant Ashlee Simpson dress up her baby bump in striped maxi and chic black blazer a she hit the shop with female pal More Do n't Miss Pregnant Game of Thrones actress Lena Headey display her baby bump in a stylish maternity jumpsuit a she hit the shop Dakota Johnson channel her inner rock star a she arrive in Paris wearing funky retro shade and a wide-brimmed hat for Fashion Week Salut ! Lily Collins rock pattern dress and skinny jean under a stylish black coat a she touch down for Paris Fashion Week Hello sunshine ! Scorching Jade Albany flash ample cleavage and pertderrire a she emerge drip from the sea in bright yellow bikini Bethenny Frankel wow in red jumpsuit a she attempt to steal the spotlight away from the lady in sexy new RHONYC promo Going broke on The Block ! Ayden and Jess reveal they need to win around $ 50,000 to break even on Triple Threat ... after Dee and Daz only net $ 10,000 last year 'Black and white magic ' : Bewitching Erin Holland smoulder in new racy lingerie shoot a she flash the flesh in black latex and bra Flaunting sexy body She nose about style : Madonna 's daughter Lourdes Leon show off septum pierce while shop in New York City 'I be a little heartbroken ' : Clueless star Jeremy Sisto break his silence on lose Titanic role to Leonardo DiCaprio Starring in new drama Hint of a tint ! Carefree Paris Jackson debut new lighter hair colour a she step out in casual legging for solo shop spree She Knowles how to make an arrival ! Solange turn head in a red faux fur coat a she attend Paris Fashion Week show An individualstyle Case close ! Police no longer investigate theft of Lupita Nyong'o 's ' $ 150K Oscar gown ' after it be 'returned by thief' Recovered last week Billie Faiers rock a casual look in puffy jacket a she enjoy trip to the spa with seven-month-old baby Nelly Seven-month-old be spot with her mum Newly engage Lady Gaga flash her legs in racy skirt slash to her hip a she step out in Paris wearing a long blonde wig Woman who lost weight follow gastric bypass have to undergo surgery AGAIN after allow ER doctor to insert a feeding tube into her stomach because she be 'malnourished' Rematch ! Adam Sandler and Bob Barker fight it out in a hospital ward a they recreate their Happy Gilmore punch-up in funny skit for autism benefit The many style of Natasha Oakley ! Bikini A Day blogger show off hint of sideboob in elegant dress after showcasing slim figure in two-piece swimsuit Daddy 's little princess ! Chris Brown 's 'daughter with model and nurse student Nia Amey have be name ROYALTY' The baby 's name have now be unveil Putting it all behind her ! Hilary Duff show all her hard work in the gym be pay off in very tight jean a she smile away to herself despite divorce proceeding 'He take my pant so I take his top ' : Model Abbey Lee Kershaw reveals her favourite piece of clothing be a Turkish football top she stole from a guy Sam Jr. on the way ? Pregnant Lara Bingle beam a she lovingly cradle her baby bump in chic belt jacket ... amid report she 's expect a boy 'I restrain her from hurt herself ' : Danniella Westbrook 's ex fianc Tom Richards deny assault claim after actress share picture of bruise Karrueche Tran hold hand with a handsome publicist a she exit nightclub after dump Chris Brown over revelation he 'fathered a child' It 's nearly time ! Pregnant Isla Fisher cover her grow bump in black a she step out with husband Sacha Baron Cohen Covered up her bump Tum-thing special : Pregnant Helen Flanagan cradle her blossom bump in two-tone jacket a she run errand in Birmingham Nikki Reed parade her svelte and shapely leg in skintight patchwork jean a she enjoy casual lunch in Hollywood Has lot to smile about Judi Dench step out in New York with boyfriend David Mills ... after admitting she be told she 'did n't have the face ' for movie Looked bright and happy Bobby Brown appear on her TV show - tap week ago before Bobbi Kristina 's drowning - talk up his barbecue sauce and daughter 's singing career Imogen Thomas show off her incredible figure in white string bikini a she soak up the Miami sun with hunky boyfriend Adam TBT ! Gwyneth Paltrow post touch throwback photo of herself with late father a she call on all dad to support their daughter Smouldering soap star ! Home And Away 's Pia Miller display midriff in monochrome while Olympia Valance wear strappy black outfit at Kookai launch Liam 's next big gig : Hemsworth sign on for Independence Day sequel two decade after Will Smith star in the original Madonna 's favourite French couturier Jean Paul Gaultier , 62 , prof career be strong than ever a he get set to unveil retrospective at large AIDS event Just call her Judge Geordie ! Vicky Pattison be set to make a return to MTV a she land new hosting role Vicky Pattison be set to re-launch her career So what IS Martin Sheen do with Holly Branson and Princess Beatrice ? Hollywood star hobnobs with the royal at glitzy gala It be a royal night out Feeling plump : Alex Gerrard reveals full lip a she step out for a gym session in stylish fitness gear She 's get ready to move to Los Angeles Kerry Washington ooze glamour in a dramatic strapless ballgown a she pose for shot a alter-ego Olivia Pope ahead of Scandal premiere Imogen Thomas continue to parade her bikini body in skimpy turquoise two-piece a she kick back under the Miami sun with daughter Ariana Bali babe ! Big Brother star Tully Smyth pose in tiny black bikini with glass of wine in hand during luxury holiday with recent housemate Lisa Clark and Jake Rich Daddy 's little girl ! David Warner lovingly hold onto daughter Ivy Mae a he stroll through the airport with soon-to-be wife Candice Falzon Watch out come through ! Drew Barrymore load up on healthy goody for her family Shopped for locally source fruit and veg Stairway to heaven ! Shia LaBeouf and Mia Goth share a kiss at their favourite make-out spot ... the mall escalator Made out on a escalator in Los Angeles David Walliams reveals he be TURNED DOWN by Cheryl a he join her on Graham Norton show ... follow 'split from model wife' Myleene Klass dress her two daughter , Hero and Ava , a HERSELF for World Book Day ( well , she do write a celebrity pregnancy diary ! ) What happen to your leg ? Sex And The City star Chris Noth , 60 , see limp around NYC with a cane The 60-year-old limp around in the bitter cold That 's not her boyfriend ! Ashley Greene leave Paul Khoury at home to take her hunky hairstylist for a hike in the Hollywood Hills The way we be ! Savannah Guthrie and her fellow Today host reveal their fresh-faced yearbook photo - and they all look worthy of homecoming crown Imogen Thomas flaunt her shapely bikini body in tiny two-piece a she dot on daughter Ariana during sunny Miami holiday S Club 7 's Hannah Spearritt shed her squeaky clean image a she pose provocatively in a semi-sheer crop top Mad Men 's Kiernan Shipka be effortlessly fashionable in retro skirt-and-sweater ensemble a she step out in Los Angeles She look very cool Holly Branson display her stunning post-baby body in skinny jean at We Day UK event ... three month after give birth to twin Etta and Artie She 's in amazing shape 'You have to be good than your male colleague ' : Feminist Salma Hayek discuss the 'crazy ' pressure society put woman under Well , she be cool ! American Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour wrap up as she feel the cold follow fundraising gala in central London 'Definitely not marriage material . Wo n't grow long hair , ever ' : Indian girl post VERY honest 'marriage CV ' after her parent post a profile of her on date site The photograph of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger , Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw in stunning portfolio of her work Melanie Griffith wear brightly-coloured floral padded jacket for workout session ... follow pampering trip to beauty parlour Out for her daily workout Legs eleven ... out of ten ! Model Ajak Deng flaunt her slim pin in Mimco photo shoot She 's one of Australia 's most successful international model The future 's bright ! Jordana Brewster turn head a she slip into skintight orange tie-dye legging for low-key shopping trip Ellie Goulding go from winter chic to sunshine ready a she jet into Los Angeles and head straight to the studio Emma Watson go make-up free in home video announce she 'll host a live HeForShe event in London and say it 's be an 'amazing journey' Millie Mackintosh say she work out up to SIX time a week until it hurt because it 's like 'therapy for the brain ' a she show off athletic body in photoshoot 'I 'm the third wheel when we go out ' : MKR 's Will Stewart speak out about cook partner Steve Flood 's 'love rat ' reputation and rumour romance with Nikki Sephar 'I 'm awesome ! It do n't bother me ' : Kelly Clarkson responds to Katie Hopkins ' fat jibe ... after admitting she do n't know who British critic be 'She shut out everyone in the room ' : Vince Vaughn reveals daughter 's obsession with Frozen on Ellen DeGeneres chat show Opened up on his kid 'I 'm not attract to bloke , just the one trannie ' : Shock jock Kyle Sandilands , 43 , reveals his night of lust with a transsexual when he turn 40 'Haters gon na hate ' : Guy Sebastian gallantly respond to criticism over his Eurovision coup through the wise word of Taylor Swift Guy represent Australia Fantastic Miss Fearne : Pregnant Cotton wear a funky fox-emblazoned jacket a she show off her chic maternity style Made her way into the Radio One office Charlotte Crosby vow to 'punish ' boyfriend Mitch Jenkins after he trick fan by announce surprise engagement on Twitter Emmy Rossum step out in ripped boyfriend jean and navy vest top a she treat herself to a pampering session at the nail salon Out for a pampering trip 'The rumour be true ! ' Miley Cyrus share an image of herself get pregnancy scan in fresh series of parody pic Showing that she do have a sense of humour Rosie Huntington-Whiteley put on a leggy display in figure-hugging black leather trouser for dinner in Los Angeles Showing of her leg 'Newly single ' David Walliams post defiant thumbs-up tweet inside helicopter ... 'amid claim he want model wife Lara back' Pregnant Molly Sims show off baby bump in floral mini dress a she step out on low-key outing Pregnancy be clearly treat Molly Sims well Well , it be the City of Love ! Robert Pattinson and girlfriend FKA twig enjoy night out in Paris ... after report he have give her a 'promise ring' Kelly Brook put on a bootylicious display in skintight sportswear a she continue her gruelling weight-loss mission by heading out on a jog She 's have a laugh ! Kelly Brook show off her slimmed-down curve in a pattern minidress a she support sitcom co-star at comedy club Fighting fit ! Kelly Brook show off her weight loss in skin-tight workout legging and white vest top The model 's effort be clearly pay off Off-duty Hailey Baldwin keep it casual in an oversized grey coat a she enjoy a spot of retail therapy in New York Cut a relax figure Rock star ! Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl let his hair down a he jam out to the band 's great hit at Adelaide concert Was in rock star mode Jennifer Hawkins bar her midriff in neon crop top and leather short a she pose for fashion spread in Cosmopolitan Australia She 's in stunning shape A tan and tone Michelle Keegan prove she 's the ultimate beach babe a she unveil her summer Lipsy collection in full Still wet the baby 's head ! Proud dad Dave Gardner enjoy a night out in central London ... three week after welcome first child with Liv Tyler Sofia Richie cut a stylish figure in white ensemble a she follow in sister Nicole 's fashionable footstep at Paris Fashion Week 'When they dance at the ball , I weep ! ' Cate Blanchett reveals she 's a real softie at heart despite playing evil stepmother in Cinderella Cate 's softer side 'There be nothing more sexy ' : Jesinta Campbell say her idea of romance be her fiance Lance 'Buddy ' Franklin cooking up a big bowl of spag bol for dinner Meet Chris Brown 's 'baby mama ' Nia Amey , a model and nurse student from Texas ... AND she 's party friend with Karrueche Tran Tran have dump Chris Wet and wild ! Simon Baker hit Bondi Beach wearing his signature shade a he introduce his son to Australia 's favourite pastime Long call US home Today 's headline Most Read EXCLUSIVE : Candid camera : The photograph of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger , ... No parking fine if you overstay by just 10 minute : New law next month will give you extra time before ... Fare dodger who forge his own fake first class train ticket at home use a computer be order to pay ... Losing even ONE hour of sleep can make you fat : Being slightly tired mean you eat an extra 200 calorie the ... Chelsea fan 'caught chanting the N-word and anti-Semitic slur ' in new race hate storm follow League Cup ... What your PEE say about your health : A clear stream mean you 're drink too much coffee , while red urine ... Lynch mob justice Indian-style : Gang break into prison and kidnap man accuse of raping student - then strip ... Miraculous moment a passing doctor save a stranger 's life after he crash motorbike into a lorry and cut ... Mexican schoolboy who be so badly beat by bully he spend 16 month in hospital with brain damage dy ... Me , gorgeous ? I feel a little bit awkward about it if I 'm honest , say Labour star Chuka Umunna Mortuary cremate WRONG BODY at funeral of Tory MEP Philip Bradbourn - because other dead man 's name be ... Stepbrother of student Becky Watts , 16 , appear in court charge with her murder - a new picture show them ... 'Expect many more politician to be investigate ' : MP say veteran Tory Harvey Proctor will be first of many ... NHS trust that botched lawyer 's appendix surgery leave her infertile try to wriggle out of big payout - ... 'I fell to piece . I 'm still grieve ' : Mother reveals heartbreak over the horrific murder of her teenage ... Ram raider steal 120,000 vintage race car by smashing through showroom window with Land Rover - and ... 'Definitely not marriage material . Wo n't grow long hair , ever ' : Indian girl post VERY honest 'marriage CV ' ... 19 more year ' good health for rich girl : Newborns from wealthy area will reach 71 before her life be ... Dinosaur-mad schoolgirl , 8 , take on Clarks over 'sexist ' shoe range cover in flower and butterfly Builder stab colleague with his fork at work Christmas party because he take an ONION RING from his plate ... Why fifty be the most expensive age of our life : Care cost hit 'sandwich generation' Delta flight carry 130 have wing rip off in landing terror a it plow through a security fence at ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils record low ten-year fix rate mortgage Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan weakens euro - and sterling 'could reach 1.50 this ... Will the iPhone 7 be WATERPROOF ? Apple patent reveals plan to protect the inside of the phone from liquid How to make a movie North Korea style : Kidnap the star , torture the director and dont just shoot a film , ... EXCLUSIVE : Mother reunite with daughter nearly 18 year after newborn be snatch from her arm in ... Tories plot revolt a Hammond denies say 'no vote in defence ' : Growing rebellion ahead of Commons vote ... Cameron accuse of treating the electorate like Downton Abbey 's Lord Grantham over TV debate snub Abandoned at birth , this little girl 's nose be eat by insect : But now she 's start a new life with her ... How Welsh A & Es be delay 999 crew : Ambulances be hold outside department for five time long than in ... Thai call girl 'laundered 1million stolen by Barclays Bank worker through Oriental Angels escort agency' Illegal immigrant land job in the House of Commons after glue a photo of herself onto a forged passport Moment thug punch Big Brother winner Josie Gibsons deaf brother in unprovoked nightclub attack 'These bunch of thief have steal several of my book ' : Jeffrey Archer hit out at Bollywood producer Self-imposed pressure to perform well in the workplace cause girl to 'choke ' and end up in badly pay job , ... Accounts manager , 53 , 'was force by bos to dress a Father Christmas because he be old than everyone ... Four sentence to death in Tanzania for brutally murder young albino woman in order to use her body part ... Potholes blight up to one in five road : Thousands of country lane need work after it be n't do last ... Autism IS N'T an inevitable disability - and you should n't assume anything about those who have it , say ... Mont Blanc , the Grand Canyon and even a Florida beach : The most beautiful but DEADLY tourist destination ... Police renew appeal for father miss with his eight-month-old son to get in touch a family reveal he have ... 'I know he be n't go to make it ' : Father of young Boston bomb victim tell court about the ... Prosecutors confirm no one will face charge over death of three soldier who collapse on SAS training ... Charity volunteer who set tripwire in the dark to make her ex-model neighbour fall down two flight of ... Inside the workshop where 4,000 silicone sex doll be mould , paint and dress to fulfil men 's every ... Fraudsters who use the name of more than 200 dead child to launder profit from attempt 1m VAT fraud ... Jihadi John on film : New video unearth of ISIS executioner a a shy teenager playing football with his ... 'I swear to my God , I 'll testify against you if you go to Syria ' : How a desperate father and his family ... Is this ISIS ' sickest execution video yet ? Now terrorists put camera on the end of their gun to make ... MORE HEADLINES D+ . Well present work girl . Next time , a little more care with proof-reading please : Grammar nark take a red pen to embarrassing mistake on real estate board Woman with crippling headache stab herself in the skull to try and relieve the pain ... before doctor discover it be cause by a tumour in her ovary which have hair and TEETH in it when it be remove Why be deadly REDBACKS hiding in our grape ? Shoppers find spider in bag of fruit ... and farmer ca n't eliminate them because they hold their breath when spray with insecticide Mark Zuckerberg 's secret to acing a job interview : Facebook CEO reveals the one question he ask before hire a new employee EXCLUSIVE : Mother reunite with daughter nearly 18 year after newborn be snatch from her arm in hospital incredibly THANKS the woman who stole her 'for giving her a good life' 'The little girl either fell asleep or just slip down between the seat : Kindergarten student find dehydrate and distress after she be LOCKED on the school bus for hour 'They do n't let me see my grandson George ' : Prince Charles ' concern at the 'March of the Middletons' Is this ISIS ' sickest execution video yet ? Now terrorists put camera on the end of their gun to make footage of killing look like a shoot 'em up computer game Hurled to his death in front of a baying mob : ISIS barbarian throw 'gay ' man off building in another sickening day in Jihadi capital of Raqqa Lynch mob justice Indian-style : Gang break into prison and kidnap man accuse of raping student - then strip him naked , drag him four mile and beat him to death Stepbrother of 16-year-old Becky Watts be charge with her murder and his girlfriend with attempt to pervert the course of justice Former prime minister Julia Gillard post throwback Thursday picture of her in her school uniform to empower girl ... and be immediately abuse on social medium Pictured : Police chief SMILES a he pose with Australian drug smuggler onboard their final flight a the overgrown execution site , know a Death Valley , be reveal Heartbreak of girl , 10 , after her beloved pet cat be put down by vet who thought it be a stray British backpacker who leave 'love poster ' for man she spot on New Zealand beach have 'amazing ' sleep over at his house and cook him breakfast after their first date ... now she plan to stay with him for the whole week ! EXCLUSIVE : Candid camera : The photograph of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger , Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw in stunning portfolio of her work Video game fan cough up blood and drop dead in Shanghai internet caf after playing World Of Warcraft straight for 19 hour Stepbrother of student Becky Watts , 16 , appear in court charge with her murder - a new picture show them together at their parent ' wedding Just off to the shop for some bear essential : The adorable moment a koala go for walk on the main street and pause to have his PHOTO taken by a little boy before continue on his way Pregnant woman , 22 , attack with baseball bat and knife by mask gang after they burst into her home while she be GIVING BIRTH Pictured : Lesbian lover who brainwash the 'perfect mum ' into kill her daughter , eight , by spinning web of fantasy on the internet 'The knife of justice ' : North Korea praise fanatic who slash US ambassador to Seoul across face , say attack be 'righteous punishment' Bali Nine duo be 'talking to each other through their cell wall ' while they await their execution by firing squad ... a the drug smuggler ' family arrive for last goodbye 'The impact it have on me be massive ' : Author and model Tara Moss open up about be rap by 'a friend she trust ' to highlight violence against woman 'Krystle say her leg hurt . We put our face together . Her hand went limp and she never speak again ' : Amputee marathon survivor tell courtroom about final moment with her friend who die at the scene Horrific video claim to show a nine-year-old 'ISIS supporter ' be execute by Shia militia - but be it just the late piece of jihadi propaganda ? In sickness and in health : Groom miss his own wedding reception after be rush to hospital due to severe food poison from a sausage and egg McMuffin 'All good bro ' : The text message from Andrew Chan to a friend show he never think execution would go ahead ... a Julie Bishop make final bid to spare duo by offering to SWAP prisoner 'They 've just start a new school this year ... and the kid do n't believe that they be brother ' : Mixed-race boy bear with different colour skin have to prove to classmate they be twin Barbarism on a budget : How Indonesia have cap execution of Australians at $ 20,000 each ... and choose 'Death Island ' because it be the cheap option 'He 's like a dog about to walk up on a tree ' : Karl Stefanovic don Birkenstocks with sock and tiny short to complete a workout live on breakfast television 'I will f***ing own anyone on this flight ; they be peasant ' : Witness give blow-by-blow account of Conrad Hilton III 's drug-fueled meltdown aboard transatlantic flight Woman leave a paraplegic after fall from the top storey of her rental home on Christmas Day have damage claim throw out because she be 'severely intoxicated' Nigerian woman file for divorce because her husband 's penis be 'too big' A machine gun , machetes , a samurai sword and a cache of bullet : The weapon haul allegedly find by police when they pull over selfie-loving suspect 's car The moment Bali Nine duo be bundle onto a plane after be told their execution time have come ... Chan pack his bible , while bud artist Sukumaran take pencil and paper A global tragedy : The Filipino drug courier to be execute alongside Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumuran ... who claim she do n't know her suitcase be pack with heroin EXCLUSIVE : Injected with arsenic , Viagra and cocaine to make them go fast in win-or-die race , the bloodthirsty trade of unwanted Australian greyhound to Asia and South America expose 'Please Mr President , once it be do it can never be undo ' : From Guy Pearce 's sombre lighting of a candle to the Temper Trap 's powerful letter , Australian star plead for mercy for Chan and Sukumaran Wish you be here ? ISIS release tourist brochure-style image of bustle food market in jihadi stronghold of Mosul Jihadi John family 's 20 year on benefit : How it 's cost taxpayer up to 400k to house fanatic and his relative in upmarket area 'I feel sexy and confident ' : Size 22 model reveal a the face of new swimwear line 'He 's my brother ... we love each other ' : Wearing a beanie to cover his injury , Irishman leave in a coma after be punch by his brother call for charge against sibling to be drop 'It be hell , I wish Clint all the luck in the world with that woman ' : 'Battered ' ex-husband of Clint Eastwood 's girlfriend Christina Sandera reveals her criminal past and 'drinking problem' Officers stun after man turn up at a police station with a 'severed penis ' in his bag EXCLUSIVE : Dr. Phil fly to Atlanta to aid Bobbi Kristina 's devastate boyfriend Nick Gordon after family and friend reach out for help a he tweet 'I 'm so hurt I wan na do myself in' Read this and you 'll never eat a ready meal again : JOANNA BLYTHMAN spend month probe Britain 's convenience food industry . Her finding will turn your stomach MOST READ IN DETAIL EDITOR 'S SIX OF THE BEST JAN MOIR : Four mother who epitomise everything that 's awful about Britain EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE : The zipless dress once consider 'risque ' ... that have prove a hit thank to the Duchess of Cambridge DAILY MAIL COMMENT : Co-op , Labour and a betrayal of value TOM UTLEY : At last , a genuine medical condition that explain why I never listen to a word my wife say RICHARD LITTLEJOHN : Life 's too short to measure a goldfish Press the panic button ... Lucifer 's legged it : The Mail 's theatre critic be direct his village 's Easter play . So why have the Devil disappear and do the Bible really feature green underpants Next story EXCLUSIVE : Candid camera : The photograph of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger , Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw in stunning portfolio of her work 489 comment 2 video SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Back to top Home U.K . U.S . News Sport TV & Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Video Coffee Break Travel Fashion Finder Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail , The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve 