Trim Your Cooking Energy Use BC Hydro Regeneration | 50 Hi UserFirst My Profile Personal Information Subscriptions & Alerts Change Password Log out Log in or Create a MyHydro Profile Search About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us Accounts & Billing Power Smart Energy in B.C . News , Events & Media In Your Community Safety & Outages Residential Close Rebates & Savings Fridge Buy-Back Appliances Lighting Home Electronics Home Energy Rebate Offer Success Stories Guides & Tips Green Your Home Green Your Life Green Your Community Team Power Smart Contact Team Power Smart Appliance & Lighting Calculator Power Smart New Homes Power Smart Home Features Power Smart for Low-Income Households Energy Conservation Assistance Program Energy Saving Kit Offer Understand your electricity use Home Loan Pilot Program ( Colwood ) Business Close Types of business customer Programs & Incentives Power Smart Partner Program Power Smart Express Project Incentives ( Industrial ) Strategic Energy Management ( Industrial ) New Home Program New Construction Program Energy Efficient Technologies & Tips Tools & Resources Business Program Eligibility Tool Understand your business electricity use Success Stories Business Energy Advisors Load Management Demonstration Project Power Smart Alliance Close Program Information Power Smart Express Self-Serve Incentive Program Commercial Partners Industrial Partners New Construction Program New Plant Design Program Updates Membership Contractors Distributors Consulting Engineers Become an Affiliate About Alliance Referrals Training & Events Common Questions & Contact Information News & Features Home Power Smart Residential Guides & Tips Green Your Home Appliances Cooking Trim Your Cooking Energy Use Find the right tool Using a full-size oven be not always necessary . Smaller appliance , like toaster oven and slow cooker , can often get the job done for less , especially when cook small meal . Using the right tool for the job will save energy and money . Affordability If your lifestyle make it difficult to plan meal far enough ahead to use a crock-pot , try a pressure cooker . Pressure-cooking be fast , save energy and cook the nutrient into your food . Cost saving A microwave take 15 minute to do the same job a an hour of cook in an electric oven . Using a microwave instead of your oven four time a week could save you more than $ 20 per year on your electricity bill . Health & comfort Microwave ovens be a highly energy-efficient way to cook , but study have show that many food cook in them have high cholesterol level and in some case less nutritional value than if cook in other way . Balance your microwave use with crock-pots , toaster oven and other small appliance to save energy and stay healthy . Environmental consideration Your food choice can make a big difference in global energy use . Buying food that be less process may seem like more work for you but will actually save much of the energy use in processing and packaging . Eating local food , fresh food and buy dry good in bulk be other great way to reduce the energy use for shipping , processing and packaging food . Eating whole food will also give your body more nutrition and therefore more of it own energy . What you need to know Small cooking appliance Most small appliance use about half the wattage of an electric oven to do the same job . Keepsmall appliance away from cold draftsto ensurethey do not have to workso hard to stay warm . Keep all appliance clean and well-maintained . Stovetop Use a pressure cooker . By using steam pressure , it cook at a high temperature and reduces cook time . Keep the inside of your microwave oven clean to maximize it efficiency . Avoid using the microwave to defrost food . Thawing food in the fridge be safer than leave it on the countertop and it contribute to the fridge 's cooling . Boiling water in an electric kettle be more efficient than on most stovetops . Keep pot and pan cover while cooking . Water boil fast and food cook more quickly . Use the small pot or pan possible . Smaller pan require less energy . If your stove have different size of element , match the pan size to the element size . A 15-cm ( 6-inch ) pan on a 20-cm ( 8-inch ) element will waste 40 % of the energy produce by the element . If you only have one element size , go with the small pot . With conventional coil burner , use reflective drip pan to help reflect heat up toward the cooking surface . However , do not line drip pan with aluminum foil they can reflect too much heat and damage the element . Use flat-bottomed cookware on electric stove . Burner element be significantly less efficient if the pan do not have good contact with the element . Electric ignition for your gas stove can burn about 40 % less fuel than a pilot light . If the pilot light and flame on your gas stove be yellow , not blue , the gas port likely need to be clean out with a pipe cleaner . Oven When possible , use small appliance such a an electric fry pan with lid , crock-pot , toaster oven , or microwave instead of the full-sized range or wall oven . The chart below show several method of cook the same meal and the energy consume by comparison . Appliance Temperature Cooking Time Energy Use Electric Oven 177C ( 350F ) 1 Hour 2.0 kWh Convection Oven 163C ( 325F ) 45 Minutes 1.39 kWh Toaster Oven 232C ( 450F ) 50 Minutes .95 kWh Crock-pot 93C ( 200F ) 7 Hours .7 kWh Microwave Oven `` High '' 15 Minutes .36 kWh Preheat ovens only when require . Except for bake , most food can be cook without preheating . No peeking . Each time you open the oven door , 20 % of the heat be lose . Instead , use your oven light and look through the window . Make sure the seal on your oven door be tight so heat doe not escape . Do not line oven rack with foil . Foods cook more quickly and evenly when air circulates freely . Stagger pan on upper and low rack . Bake in glass or ceramic cookware instead of metal . You can turn the temperature down by 14C ( 25F ) and food will cook in the same time . Check the accuracy of your oven temperature with an oven thermometer . Use timer and meat thermometer to avoid overcooking . Not only do overcook ruin the meal , it waste energy a well . It take less energy to reheat food than to cook it . Prepare double portion of food and freeze the leftover for another meal . This save your personal time and energy , too . Turn the oven off 15 to 20 minute before the cooking time be up to allow cooking to continue while reduce energy use . If you be go to use your oven 's self-cleaning feature , run it after you 've cook a meal . The oven will still be hot and this feature will require less energy than if you start with a cold oven . Note , however , that some oven require that you only run this feature when the oven be cold . Check your manufacturer 's instruction for correct use . Taking it far Use a solar oven when you can . Solar oven be by far the most energy-efficient cooking appliance . They require no fuel , reduce unwanted summer heat in your home by taking the cooking outside , they reach temperature of 360 to 400 and can cook food just a fast a a conventional oven . Hybrid solar ovens have an energy-efficient electric backup for night use or other time when solar power be not available . Even when run on electricity , most model use 75 % less energy than conventional electric range . There be many model of solar oven available to buy , or look for design online and build your own . FAQ If I buy pre-made food that I only have to heat up or add water to , do not that save more energy than cook from scratch ? The energy use to pre-cook , dehydrate or otherwise process , and then package the food be more than you will use to if you purchase fresh food and prepare it yourself . Whole food be also healthier for your body . The environmental benefit will be even great if you buy local food and purchase non-perishable item in bulk . Does it take all day to cook food in a solar oven ? The cooking time in a solar oven depends on how much solar energy be available , what kind and how much food you be cook , the time of day you be cook , and how often you turn the oven to face into the sun . For most food , if you turn the oven to keep the solar energy focus , food will cook in about the same amount of time a with a conventional oven . Appliances Refrigeration Washing Laundry Drying Laundry Washing Dishes Cooking Other Appliances Water Heater Power Smart tip sheet Energy smartsaround your home [ PDF , 1.5 MB ] About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us My Profile Log out Log in Accounts & Billing Power Smart Energy in B.C . News , Events & Media In Your Community Safety & Outages View Mobile Site Copyright 2015 BC Hydro . All Rights Reserved Legal Privacy Statement Site Index 