Cut your energy bill : 10 tip to reduce your gas and electricity cost | This be Money Money Home Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums My Profile Logout Login show ad Worried about rise energy cost ? Here be 10 crafty trick to cut your bill By Dan Hyde and Victoria Bischoff Published : 10:50 EST , 17 October 2012 | Updated : 21:27 EST , 17 October 2012 252 View comment 1 . Fix your deal to save 300 All of the big energy company be announce price rise . Battle the hike by grab a cheap tariff . There be a 300-a-year difference between the best and bad tariff , accord to the price comparison website uSwitch . Make sure you sign up to a fix deal . The lowest-cost deal available be First Utilitys iSave Fixed v4 March 2014 . A family of four live in a three-bedroom , semi-detached house seen a a typical customer would pay , on average , 1,087 a year for gas and electricity . Crafty trick : Try these 10 tip to cut your bill The price be fix until March 2014 . In the unlikely event of price fall heavily before then , you would have to pay a 30 exit fee for each fuel you use . Deals without exit penalty include Scottish Powers Online Fixed Price Energy April 2014 tariff . This cost a typical household 1,140 a year . You need to act fast . The top deal be disappear rapidly . If you dont want a long fix deal , you can get First Utility iSave v12 , which cost 1,054 . To see if you could save money , compare price use the This be Money Fuel Bills Finder . 2 . Stop paying by cash and cheque You can make serious saving just by changing the way you pay your bill . Most energy company reserve their best deal for online customer . So if you have access to a computer , use it . Energy provider will also give you a good deal if you sign up to gas and electricity a so-called dual fuel tariff . More ... Scottish Power raise energy price by inflation-busting 8.9 % Is British Gas take the mickey ? Energy giant hike bill by 6 % Energy bill : Is it worth switch and which be the best deal ? Compare : Find a cheap energy deal You can also get a hefty discount often a much a 100 a year on the average bill if you pay by monthly direct debit . Paying by cash or cheque be expensive . Only use this method of payment if you have to . If you have access to the internet , you can also cut cost by view bill online , rather than receive paper bill in the post . Scottish and Southern Energy , for example , offer a 6 per fuel annual discount if you go paperless . 3 . Put on a cardigan Most family have the heating on at 20 degree centigrade all day , and wander about the house in a blouse or T-shirt . Turn down the thermostat just one degree , to 19 degree , and put on a jumper or cardigan and you can shave 10pc off your heating bill . This be a 60 a year save for the typical household . Youll hardly notice the difference if your house be well insulate . If your hot water be pip hot , it probably too high . Set the thermostat to no more than 60c/140f . Make sure the central heating and hot water be off when youre out for the day whether thats at work , school or visit relative . Use the timer sparingly so it come on only when necessary . Turn off the radiator in room youre not use and keep window and door close if the heating be turn on . Buy a hot water bottle Tesco and Asda sell them for just 3 . Off : Do n't waste money on light when you 're out 4 . Turn off the light Lighting account for 19pc of the average household electricity bill . Energy-saving bulb can knock 55 a year off your bill . These last ten time long than normal version , and use 80 pc less energy . Each bulb replace can save you around 120 over it lifetime , accord to the Energy Saving Trust . Ignore anyone who say it take more electricity to switch light back on than be save switch them off expert say that be just amyth . Cut out any bad habit . Turning off light when you nip to the shop on a gloomy winter evening and onlandings at night can save 10 ayear . Unplug appliance that have a light on when idle . Thats the TV , DVD player and even the mobile phone charger . Wait until the dishwasher be full before you switch it on one full load us less energy than two halfloads . 5 . Close the curtain Dont let heat slip through the crack . Draw the curtain or blind at night and use draught-blockers for door . Turn down the heat on your washing machine : use the 30 degree set or the quick wash function if your machine have one . Use tumble-driers sparingly . Dont waste hot water the more you use , the more you have to heat . A dripping tap waste enough hot water to fill 69 bath a year . Tighten it with a spanner or ask a friend or plumber . Running a bath use up to 100 litre of water . Showering instead use much less rarely more than 35 litre and save 18 a year . In the kitchen , only boil a much water a you need ( a long a it cover the element in the kettle ) . A good idea be to measure out how many cup of tea you want to make . This can save 7 a year on it own . Put a lid on saucepan if youre boil vegetable or rice and turn down the heat on the hob . 6 . Claim your benefit Last year , the Government pay out 2.1 billion in winter fuel benefit to more than 12 million people . The winter fuel payment be an annual , tax-free benefit pay to people over the age of 61 , irrespective of how much they earn . The amount you receive range between 200 and 300 , depend on your age and circumstance . For example , people age between 61 and 70 can claim up to 200 . Those age over 80 can claim up to the full 300 . However , if you live with a partner who also qualify you will get only part of the benefit . Be aware that the qualify age for this benefit for men and woman be rise in line with the increase in woman state pension age currently 61 . A separate benefit , call the cold weather payment , be pay in the event of exceptionally cold weather . If the temperature be below zero degree Celsius in your postcode area for seven day in a row between November and March , you will receive an extra 25 . These payment be usually pay automatically to those who be eligible . But if you havent receive the payment before and be not get the state pension or another benefit , you may need to apply . Men under 65 who be too young to claim their state pension be most likely to miss out . 7 . Read your meter regularly Avoid estimate bill at all cost . This be when your energy supplier guess how much energy you use in a year and average it out . It can leave you pay much more than you need . Provide your supplier with accurate meter reading instead . Check your meter once every three month at the very least . Record your usage by calling your supplier or set up an online account . If youre heavily in credit , ask for some money back this way it willbe earn interest in your bankaccount . If your provider kick up a fuss , quote condition 27 of the Gas Supply Licence . This state that credit must be refund and direct debit fair . 8 . Replace your boiler Getting rid of an old boiler can cut cost dramatically over the longer term . Boilers swallow 79 pc of your total fuel usage , accord to Energy Saving Trust . Scrapping a creaking model and put in a more efficient one can cut bill by as much a 240 a year . However , youll have to splash out to see these benefit . Get quote dont simply get your energy company to fit one . Theprices can be vastly inflate compare with what an independent plumber will cost you . The top new boiler from brand such a Vaillant , Worcester or Baxi cost anything from 600 to more than 2,000 . And get a plumber to fit it can cost another 600 . If you spend 1,800 get a new A-rated efficiency model to replace a G-rated boiler , youd save 237 a year , accord to price comparison website USwitch . For big house and family , this may be a good idea for pensioner , however , it likely to be impractical and expensive . Due to the initial cost , it would take 10 year to break even . 9 . Get free insulation Take advantage of free insulation deal . Making your home more energy-efficient could shave hundred of pound off your bill each year . Loft insulation alone can save you up to 175 a year , accord to the Energy Saving Trust . Cavity wall insulation add a further 135 save . Savings : Loft insulation be fit Energy supplier be offer free deal because they have to meet strict efficiency target , set by the government or face a fine . This mean even middle and high-income household can takeadvantage . British Gas , for example , be offer free insulation worth up to 1,000 to all household , regardless of their energy supplier . But you must apply before the endof November and your home must also meet certain requirement for example , have lessthan 60mm of loft insulation . Call 0800 048 0505 . British Gas be also pay a 50 referral fee to anyone who put forward a vulnerable household for free insulation . The person you refer will get 50 , too . The very poorest can also claim up to 3,500 in government grant to help . The Warm Front scheme pay a company to improve insulation on your loft , cavity wall and hot-water tank . To qualify , you must receive Pension Credit with your state pension , have an income below 15,860 and receive Child Tax Credit or Working Tax credit , or claim income support . 10 ... And buy some clingfilm Double-glazing your window can save you up to 165 a year . But just like a boiler , the initial outlay will put off some people . Prices vary wildly between provider . Expect to pay from 350 for each small bedroom window , range into the thousand to fit more than one room . However , these fee can tumble thousand of pound if you haggle with the supplier , say consumer group Which ? Make sure that you get a minimum of three quote so you can compare them and then dont be afraid to drive the price down . A wacky alternative be to use cling film . This create a DIY double glazing effect by trapping the hot air in . But instead of stuff you buy at the supermarket , go to your DIY store and ask for double-glazing film or stretch wrap . Six square metre of Stormguard double-glazing film cost 7.19 from Homebase and be fix to the window use a hairdryer . Share or comment on this article World 's most expensive city reveal : Singapore top the ... Will you get the full state pension ? Some 6.1m people could ... The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in ... Pound now buy more than 1.38 a ECB 's bond-buying plan ... Facing up to my big nightmare : AirAsia ' s boss Tony ... Going at top speed : Britain 's luxury car maker leave rival ... Fix your home loan for a decade at 2.79 % : Nationwide unveils ... SIMON LAMBERT : Warren Buffett on Tesco , share be safer ... Do you go spare if the loo roll be off it holder ? Why your ... A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on ... How to be a DIY landlord : What you need to know about go ... Osborne sell UK 's 40 % stake in Eurostar to overseas ... MOST READ MONEY Previous Next Comments ( 252 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . Add your comment Enter your comment By posting your comment you agree to our house rule . Submit Comment Clear More top story Enter search term : Search All Articles Share price Portfolio Newsletters Guides Savings rate Deals Calculators 8 WAYS TO SLASH YOUR BILLS Home insurance Electricity & gas Car insurance Breakdown insurance Mortgages Travel insurance Credit card Loans DO N'T MISS A million saver urge to register now to pay no tax on saving interest under new rule If you earn less than 15,600 a year , you can register as a non-taxpayer . Top fund boss be sell share amid fear the stock market will plunge , should you ? Record peak cause uncertainty . Thousands of Britons lure by Cyprus property dream stung by Swiss franc mortgage - but legal fight mean end be in sight The salesman be smooth talking - and promise juicy profit ... But now saver be ask : Where be our miss pension million ? You 've hear the Footsie 's hit a record high . But what fund manager do n't tell you be ... ... saving beat the soar stock market ! Jumbo mortgage on offer to borrower with 5 % deposit on the rise Buyers enjoy rock-bottom rate . The best city in the world to work in ? Vienna come top in quality of living league - but London languish at 40th place . I 've be bill 320 TWICE for my PPI claim - because two firm be work on it at the same time ASK TONY . Is child trust fund misery about to end ? New rule allow switch to more flexible Junior Isas come into effect ? Yorkshire BS launch lead cash Isa deal that pay 1.35 % - but withdrawal be limit . The best new car for 2015 From the Jaguar XE , to the MX-5 and the first ever right-hand drive Mustang If I want to get into buy-to-let , be it risky to purchase a 'house in multiple occupation ' ? And will I earn more ? MORE IN BILLS Broadband & phone News , tip and advice Household bill Advice on payment Money save idea Look after your penny Cheaper energy bill Are you pay too much ? Compare broadband Check supplier in your area Cheaper home insurance Save money , compare now BILLS : DO N'T MISS How to unlock a cheap deal for your mobile phone - and it IS legal Trapped in an expensive contract ? Why do it cost twice a much to phone France and Spain on my BT landline a call Russia and Brazil ? BT be introduce new call charge 'My mum 's look after at home - rather than in a home ' : How to take care now to meet the cost of care late Avios overhaul : Why you 'll now earn few air mile for your holiday if you fly economy What will the change will mean for you ? How to get a cheap smartphone : The essential guide to get a new phone without break the bank RACHEL RICKARD STRAUS : We ca n't act surprise that comparison site make a mint from u switch ... ... Snoop Dogg do n't work for free Price comparison website boss under attack from MPs for not show customer the best deal Bosses haul in front of the MPs . Do n't let the exit fee put you off switch energy deal : Even with a 50 levy , the potential saving be 'eye-popping' 'This time I 'm use the net for a divorce , not lawyer ' : Breaking up ? It do n't have to break the bank Do the energy giant owe you cash ? Households owe an average of 50 - but many could be due hundred Nation 's top 25 money-saving tip reveal Scrapping the tumble dryer and never grocery shopping on an empty stomach ... Fix your bill : How to cut your everyday cost and keep save money all year round Energy bill : Is it worth switch and which be the best deal ? LATEST ON HOUSEHOLD Bills Departing Ovo Energy customer to save 60 a small supplier scrap exit fee on those want to switch Households get stab at 70m cash pile for energy-saving home improvement - but late chunk of Green Deal fund will be go in day Scottish Power ban from make sale call for 12 day after it fail to right complaint despite Ombudsman order How to beat the cold caller : Tips to fight phone pest that be drive you mad Exposed : Copycat passport website bos who threaten customer with court - and the bill that soar from 117 to 700 Consumers dupe into switching energy tariff by 'misleading ' price comparison site should get compensation , MPs claim Is there a windfall wait for you ? What the Heir Hunters can teach you about track down an unclaimed inheritance When a roof rack could wreck your insurance - and other small print lurk in your car and home cover 'Our energy bill go through the roof after our son be bear ' : Find the energy ... and switch your deal NOW Four in court on fraud charge over alleged copycat Government websites MORE HEADLINES Find cheap insurance now Home insurance Travel insurance Car insurance Breakdown cover TOP CALCULATORS This be Money 's calculator and tool All our calculator in one place . See how they could help you Historic inflation : how the value of money have change The effect of inflation since 1900 and what past price mean today True cost mortgage tool - rate AND fee Compare the cost of rival fix and tracker rate mortgage Mortgage affordability : How much you can borrow Find out how much you can afford to borrow and the difference between repayment and interest-only Monthly or lump sum saving calculator How much a regular monthly saving scheme could make or a lump sum could be worth . SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Money Markets Saving & bank Investing Bills Cars Holidays Cards & loan Pensions Mortgages & home Experts Forums Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location This be Money be part of the Daily Mail , Mail on Sunday & Metro medium group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All right reserve 