Devvy Kidd -- My fight against the 'smart meter ' 8-15-11 Devvy Kidd Column Archive Older Archived Articles September 11 Archive Obama Archive Reading Room Introduction FAQ Devvy 's Home Audio Video Collection Click Me My fight against the 'smart meter' ( You do n't want one of those dangerous thing on your house ) Share This Article By : Devvy August 15 , 2011 Despite the fact that I try to keep up with the massive assault against we the people by the Outlaw Congress and too many new law come out of our state legislature , no one can keep up with everything . Which be why I have only read a little here and there about something call 'smart meter ' . Then , of course , the problem come knock at my door . On April 18 , 2011 , I receive a letter from Reliant Energy there be a repeat problem with the meter reader have access to my property . I have lock on both gate because I have dog . Last year , some punk open one of the gate during the night and my beloved Mr. Willy get out ; the lock go on the same day . I be unaware the meter reader be have trouble since my husband be always home due to his serious health problem . If he have to go to the doctor , I 'm here . What also wave a red flag be Reliant's letter which state I be require to have one of their new 'smart meter ' instal . So , I call Reliant and they refer me to a company call ONCOR , a TDSP ( Transmission and Distribution Service Provider ) . Dialing away , I call ONCOR 's customer service rep and explain the situation . I also tell the lady there be someone at this house every day ; either John or myself . All their meter reader have to do be knock on the door and he can read the meter . I think that be the end of the matter until one day a nice young man show up at the door to let me know he be go to install a 'smart meter ' . I politely say , no you be n't ; he leave . By that time I have do some research that be beyond alarming . In early July , while I be go run errand , another ONCOR fellow show up at the door to install a 'smart meter ' . My husband say , no we will not have one of those dangerous thing attach to our house . The ONCOR installer inform John that if we do n't agree to have it instal , ONCOR would shut off our power with no notice . On July 12 , 2011 , I send both Reliant and ONCOR a certified letter in which I explain my husband have serious medical problem and depends on oxygen during the day and a machine at night to keep his heart from stop . If they shut off the power , it could have dire consequence . He be also a cancer survivor , all the more reason not to have one of those dangerous meter on our house . On July 22 , 2011 , I receive a letter from ONCOR . They would shut off the power if I didn't agree to have the meter instal . Their letter be also very deceptive . In paragraph 2 , it state , The EPAct far require state to consider the adoption of Smart Metering ... 'Consider' do not mean mandatory . In fact , there be no mandatory requirement by the Federal Government from any quarter because I look up every reference resource in their letter . Referring again to their letter , they state : ... when the Texas Legislature pass a law ( H.B . No 2129 ) encourage the deployment of new advance meter ... no where do it state mandatory installation in residence throughout the State of Texas . It say 'encouraging ' and it all have to do with federal bribe money to the state . Surprise , surprise.. ONCOR far cite in their July 20 , 2011 letter Section 8 & 9 of H.B . 2129 . However , they do not provide the entire bill , only the section they think would benefit their agenda . I look up the entire enrol bill sign into law , there be no mandatory requirement for force installation of a 'smart meter ' in household . The letter conclude with Please allow the AMS meter to be instal at your property , since failure to provide access may result in suspension of delivery service . On July 26 , 2011 , I have a quick meeting with the County Judge here in my town . I have prepare a sworn affidavit a well a exhibit and be seek a TRO ( Temporary Restraining Order ) to keep ONCOR from turn off my power . Judge Barr say he have no jurisdiction , try the District Judge across the street . Trek across the street only to be tell the one and only District Judge be in a jury trial for a week or more . Rural Texas . That 's when I go home and call a state representative I have be work with on another project ; he 's a lawyer when not in session . I 'll get back to this shortly . You might ask what be my objection to a 'smart meter ' ? Which one would that be ? Health concern or privacy ? Both , actually . As I say I know little about this new technology , so about 100 hour of research late and thanks to so many dedicate people fight this , here be some of the know problem at this time : `` Those wireless meter on every home and building will emit huge pulse of microwave radio frequency radiation a often a every few second throughout the day and night , seven day a week . Our FCC exposure standard only cover short-term thermal ( heating ) effect ; they do not cover long-term accumulative exposure , nor do they cover biological impact . '' `` The World Health Organization have recently classify the type of radiation emit from smart meter ( non-ionizing radiation ) a a Class 2B carcinogen , on par with lead . '' `` All transmitter inside your home or office will communicate with a Smart Meter attach to the outside of each build . That meter , in turn , will transmit at an even high frequency to a central hub instal in local neighborhood . '' `` In what be call mesh network , signal can also be bounce from house-meter to house-meter before reaching the final hub . So exposure will not just be from your own meter , but accumulate from possibly 100-to-500 of your neighbor a well . '' `` The scientific evidence for biological impact from microwave radiation , known for decade ( remember the Moscow embassy ) continue to grow with impact such a DNA damage , increase risk of cancer and tumor , cellular stress , decrease melatonin , decrease sperm , cognitive difficulty and brain-wave alteration , heart rhythm disturbance , red blood cell clump , and impact on wildlife include to bee . `` `` Wireless radio-frequency radiation from smart meter can cause medical device to stop working . Medical implant such a pacemaker and deep-brain stimulators use to control the shaking of Parkinsons disease can be turn off by the radio frequency interference ( RFI ) cause by the signal . These signal be report in published study to interfere with critical care equipment , ventilator , pain pump , wireless insulin pump and other medical device . `` `` Reports from those who have have meter instal include heart palpitation , dizziness , inability to fall asleep , memory problem and cognitive disturbance , flu-like symptom , worsen of exist health problem , abrupt depression , agitation , headaches , hearing problem . `` `` Radio frequency interference cause malfunctioning of medical equipment such a pacemaker and wireless insulin pump `` `` Radio-frequency spike , cause appliance to break `` `` Health effect like migraine , nausea , vomit , muscle spasm , heart palpitation and sleeplessness cause by intense burst of radiation . `` What do expert say ? Letter from Dr. Magda Havas , S.Sc. , Ph.D. , Environmental and Resource Studies Program , Associate Professor of Environmental and Resource Studies at Trent University in Canada , to the California Council on Science and Technology at their request for input regard Smart Meters : In my opinion , the FCC standard for Smart Meters be not sufficient to protect public health . Olle Johansson , Ph.D. , Associate Professor ( Karolinska Institute ) , Professor ( Royal Institute of Technology ) , Stockholm , Sweden in a letter to the California Public Utilities Commission , July 9 , 2011 : Many smart meter be close to bed , kitchen , playroom , and similar location . These wireless system be never off , and the exposure be not voluntary . The smart meter be be force on citizen everywhere . Based on this , the inauguration of smart meter with gruding and involuntary exposure of million to billion of human being to pulse microwave radiation should be immediately be prohibit until 'the red flag ' can be haul down once and for all . Declaration of Dr. David O. Carpenter , M.D , submit in the United States District Court , District of Oregon , Portland Division , June 1 , 2011 . Sage Associates letter to Susan Hackwood , Ph.D. , Executive Director , California Council on Science and Technology and Lora Lee Martin , Director , Strategic Policy Initiatives and Government Affairs , California Council on Science and Technology : Letter of comment on Smart Meter Report : Conclusions of the report be inconsistent with the report 's more balanced warning about possible risk to health . The overall legitimacy of the report be cast into doubt a a result . ... Further , it can be conclude that the continue roll out of wireless smart meter may increase public health risk on a widespread basis and should be reconsider in light of the exist scientific evidence and public health warning for such chronic exposure to pulse RF . Professor Lukas H. Margaritis , National and Kapodistrian , University of Athens , Faculty of Biology , Department of Cell Biology & Biophysics , Electromagnetic Biology Laboratory Who can support that the constitution , any constitution of any country should allow installation to take place ( a the one with Smart Meters ) against the right for health of the citizen . Those be just a tiny sample of what expert have to say about wireless radio frequency and radiation . A few day ago someone I do business with here in my town mention her mother recently have a medical emergency and have to go 50 mile to Odessa to see the doctor ; she just do n't feel good for a few day and then her blood pressure spike dangerously . I inquire if she know if her mother have a 'smart meter ' on her house . Traci look surprise and say , yes just recently , why ? I then give her a good overview of the problem , tell her to get her mother to document what happen , write a snail mail letter to Rep. Landtroop and mail it to his district office , not Austin . A few thousand letter will get your state representative 's attention . As for privacy , do you know there be company out there already harvest your personal data without oversight if you have one of those 'smart meter ' ? No , it 's not a conspiracy theory . As Mr. Day write on his web site : `` That data show when you be at home , show when you be sleep , show when you be on vacation , when you have visitor , when you use a lamp , a power tool , some extra computer , and if you look like you 're run a business out of your home . It even sense when you bootleg energy off the grid . `` Your smart meter show a vivid profile of your personal living pattern and if you be home on the night of the murder . `` This be not electrical metering . This be personal surveillance . This be a search without a warrant every day . This be your personal private life go straight out through your electric meter to your power company , to your government , to the police , to the insurance company to anyone who cut a deal with your power company to look at your life under a microscope . `` Sorry , it 's actually bad than that . People who do n't cut a deal can get your information too , by simply intercept the wireless spew from the side of your house . Yes , smart meter be radio transmitter license by the FCC . On this all-news radio station , every detail of your electrical life be shoot off to some institutional data center somewhere . Already , the police in Ohio , Texas , British Columbia , and place I do n't know about , be regularly use smart meter data to pinpoint marijuana grow house , enforce business license , and punish people for do thing in the privacy of their own home , that you be not suppose to do , that they would not even know that you be do , if they be not spy on you . `` Your power company get to sell your life story to whomever it want . Any unusual power consumption pattern be consider probable cause to raid you for grow marijuana or run a computer server without a business license . '' Think he's blow smoke ? California PUC issue sweep data access order `` Many young company have sprung up base on be able to access consumer Smart Meter data and package it in some meaningful form . So far they 've have to make their own assumption about what data would be available , often form alliance between hardware and software company . '' A jaw drop violation of your privacy make possible by your utility company . Those `` young company '' do n't care about your privacy , they want to sell it . How shameful and be n't it nice California issue some rule after the cow be out of the barn ? There be billion of dollar involve with this 'smart meter' business , make no mistake about it . Who owns ONCOR ? `` Oncor Electric Delivery be the electricity transmission subsidiary of Energy Future Holdings . Private equity firm TPG Capital , Kohlberg Kravis & Roberts Co. and Goldman Sachs create Energy Future Holdings by acquire North Texas utility business TXU Corp. in October 2007 . The $ 45 billion deal ( include assume debt ) be the large leverage buyout in history . '' How about company who make the meter ? Landis+Gyr This Swiss-based company be one of the granddaddy of electric metering in Europe , but word of warning to U.S. competitor : They 're make serious inroad here , include the massive Oncor smart meter deployment in Texas ; they 're also work with AEP , SMUD , PG & E and others . The company say it have win more than $ 1 billion in new order around the world this year , include major contract in Australia , across the Nordic country , and in the U.S. And just last week the company announce it have raise $ 100 million in shareholder capital to fund rapid growth in smart meter . Even though the company be slow to digest and integrate it previous acquisition , and even though it U.S. marketing have be lame , I do n't see any sign that Landis+Gyr be go to be anything but a serious player . I wo n't even get into the environmental disaster , livestock and all the rest of the problem . I fully understand we have to have a reliable and up to date power supply system in the U.S . I do n't begrudge utility company make a profit because I be a free market advocate . But , not at the expense of human health , not to mention all this 'dirty energy' and what it do to livestock consume by human and to the environment . The only one to benefit from 'smart meter ' will be attorney ( lawsuit ) , utility company and big pharmaceutical company from people get sick and more prescription for more pill . The 'smart meter ' be an intregal part of something call the 'smart grid ' . Because of copyright issue , I ca n't scan the page send to me by a fellow Texan in an email . Try to get a copy ( or check your local library ) of the Spring 2011 Industry Week Magazin e. There be a huge article on the smart grid and all about `` control energy inside the consumer space '' use real time . That 's you and me . Control u . It discuss the need to `` change attitude '' . That mean brain wash people into 'compliance ' on how much energy you will be allow to use and if you go over , think `` they '' wo n't shut off an appliance ? Think again because the utility company control those meter can and will . That 's the whole idea behind the so call `` smart grid '' . Reading the page my email friend sent from Industry Week be literally frighten . What also make me want to vomit be how proud those in the industry be in plan how to control all of u . Are they that stupid ? I guess they do n't mind be a guinea pig with their every movement inside their own home track and record and sell to third party . If you think the outlaw in Congress want total control , you have n't see anything yet until you understand what 's go on in the field of energy , utility company and company who make and provide technology for them . Privacy ? If we do n't fight back against this 'smart meter' 'smart grid ' now , today , you wo n't have any privacy leave . We will literally be force into a world of constant surveillance because that 's EXACTLY what 'smart meter ' be - real time surveillance of you and what go on in your house without a search warrant . Where do thing stand right now ? I guess you can call it a stand off for the moment . I 've have no more visit from ONCOR nor have anyone come to read the meter . If they knock on the door and request to read the meter , I will unlock the gate and accompany them and watch while they read the meter to make sure the fellow do n't try to pull a fast one and install a 'smart meter ' while I 'm in the house . Nice way to live . Playing game to keep a dangerous device from be attach right outside our bedroom window . The state representative I mention early in this column contact my new state rep . They both have try to contact ONCOR , but that upstanding company wo n't return their call . I 've also retain legal counsel to get a hearing in front of the Texas Public Utility Commission . When I spoke with my state representative last week , Jim Landtroop , he indicate they could also do something with the TPUC . I have receive dozen of email from people tell me I only need put a sign up on my fence that say do not install a smart meter or send ONCOR a certified letter . Well , here be the reality of the situation : they can turn off your power without notice regardless of how many sign you post on your house . Read the fine print in your contract with your utility carrier . Likely you 'll find language that say when you sign up with them you give their company permission to enter your property for maintenance and installation of their technology . A nice man contact me to let me know that for $ 299.00 people can purchase a 'kit ' to block part of the 'smart meter ' . We live on a fix income . Why should I have to shell out $ 299.00 to deface or tamper with ONCOR's equipment ? I guarantee you , the utility company be go to find out and will be at your front door with a big , fat bill . They could claim your interference with their equipment knock out 34 refrigerator in the area and cause a gazillion dollar in damage . Want to deal with that ? All this research and discussion with state representative and my attorney have eat a massive amount of my time , but time I have have to spend . Make no mistake -- there be a major war go on all across this country over those meter even though there be nothing in the MSM or cable network like FAUX . In California , ten counties have ban them , but PG & E do n't care , they 're instal them anyway . Folks in one county be arrest for try to hold their ground and keep PG & E from instal them . This be America ? The sheriff accompanies utility worker to force dangerous device on people 's home ! Last year there be a huge uproar in the Dallas area because those meter do not read accurately and people 's utility bill be double and triple . There be many news item from around Texas about house catch on fire during the night because of the problem with wire . I could fill a thousand page on this , but mark my word : This be a war because it involve billion and billion of dollar . Oh , one other little thing : Good bye ten of thousand of meter reader job . It will all be do from a remote location . Humans need not apply for a job . There be a major landmark case decide in May of this year . A group of folk out in Maine hire an energy attorney to represent them in front of the Maine PUC . They win . Utility company in Maine must give customer the opportunity to opt out of have one of those dangerous meter instal on their home . A blow to the money grubbers for their 'smart meter ' scheme . Those citizen do it the right way by pooling their money a a group to hire a good lawyer . Had they lose , could they file a lawsuit ? Yes , but we all know how costly that be and we the people should not have to spend our hard earn money fight utility company for jump the gun regard health issue for profit . Legally , I do n't need an attorney to bring my case to the Texas PUC for a hearing . But , in reality , I do need one because I need him to protect my right because he know the law and know how to proceed on something like this , I do n't . Each and every ruling will have an impact on the rest of the country , which be why we have to proceed a quickly a we can , but not risk get bad decision on the book . Right now , Maine 's PUC issue a land mark ruling . We can do it in all the state . For those who have the 'smart meter ' on your house , if you have any ill health effect , document them in detail . Contact your state representative and provide him/her ( snail mail ) with fact . The link below represent expert opinion you can print out and include . It do n't matter if your legislature be out of session . Ours be until January 2013 , but my state representative be on this and if you do the same in your state , I am confident we will see more legislator step up to the plate . At the end of your letter , ask your state rep if he/she want one of those surveillance meter on their house and the data sell to outside third party without your permission ? Ask them if they want something so dangerous next to him/her and their family ? If you live in the State of Texas , I hope you will contact me . Whether you have the meter yet or not , it be well to have many complainant to the TPUC and also help to pay the attorney I have retain . I 'm do all the research to help cut down on billable hour , but even though Tommy be a friend , he can not work for free . If a few dozen of u share the cost of legal counsel , get this in front of the PUC and prevail , we help all Texans a well a other state . I don't just want the TPUC to issue a ruling that say we have the right to opt out , I want them ( if they have the legal authority ) to order ONCOR and other company in Texas who install those meter to remove them at their cost and reinstall the old analog meter that work just fine . Because company like ONCOR have , without your permission , subject their customer to a dangerous piece of technology and literally be conduct wire tap on your residence , THEY , not the customer should bear the cost of replacement . We 'll also see what our state legislature can do about those who have the meter and want them remove with the utility company rightfully pay the cost . A major war and you can bet the big money will come out with battery of attorney and lobbyist to fight the legislature . What happens if the Texas PUC say no ? Then , we go to the next step which might involve a lawsuit . However , and this be where legal counsel be so important : A lawsuit be file here in Texas last year pro se , but be kick to the curb . I believe we have to start at the administrative level first and that be your state PUC . And -- your state representative . All state legislature can call an emergency session . Here in Texas , the vile political animal and globalist , Gov . Rick Perry , issue an Executive Order in 2007 to force all young girl in this state to take the deadly cocktail known a the HPV vaccine . Our legislature hold an emergency session and over rode his EO . I know everyone be so bury in this fire and that , but the health of you and your family be top priority and this ca n't wait . Again , if you live in Texas and want to join with me , please send me email : devvyk @ earthlink.net Please share this column with your mailing list , family and friend because those dangerous smart meter be now on the house of million of Americans with more than one hundred million house and apartment building to go , a well a all retail and commercial building in the entire country . Time be of the essence because a I say , this involve big money and big plan by people who do not care the least about our health and privacy . Only big profit at our expense . I refuse to be use a a guinea pig , but my whole neighborhood have those smart meter . The reading gather from house to house to house a they make their way to the data collection point , so we be still get some of it . My husband 's hearing aid have be go haywire the last six month . I believe it 's because of all the 'smart ' meter in my neighborhood . There be dozen of very good web site on the 'smart meter ' . It have take so much time to go through them . This one be very good : http : //www.w4ar.com/Smart-Meters.html The document below be the exhibit for my attorney ; you can use them , too . I know it 's a lot of printing , but a few be go on a CD because they be 50 to 100 page . However , it 's be critically important to be well prepare because there be report and analysis go to some of the PUC 's in state like California written by individual and/or firm who receive funding from the utility company . In other word , conflict of interest . All those report claim there be no health risk from 'smart meter ' . The same claim be make a decade ago about cell phone and now people around the world know different . We all owe a debt of gratitude to the individual below for putting so much time into their report and assessment and make them available on line so we have the ammunition to fight the powerful utility company . The radiation reading be so high '' Declaration of Dr. David O. Carpenter , M.D Submitted in the United States District Court , District of Oregon , Portland Division , June 1 , 2011 . Dr. Carpenter be educate at Harvard Medical School and be currently Director of the Institute for Health and Environment at the University at Albany and Professor of Environmental Sciences within the School of Public Health . Formerly Dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Albandy and the Director of the Wadsworth Center for Laboratories and Research of the New York State Department of Health . His entire statement should be a huge wake up call regard ELF and RF . Sage & Associates Environmental Consultants And , a second report from Sage & Associates ( put on a CD a it 's 69 page ) Addendum -Assessment of Radiofrequency Microwave Radiation Emissions from Silver Springs OWS-NIC514 - Model Wireless Electric Meter February 18 , 2011 - another one for a CD because it 's very lengthy Assessment of Radiofrequency 100 pg report ( put on a CD ) National and Kapodistrian University of Athens Faculty of Biology Department of Cell Biology & Biophysics Electromagnetic Biology Laboratory Professor Lukas H. Margaritis - Greece Olle Johansson , Ph.D. , Associate Professor ( Karolinska Institute ) , Professor ( Royal Institute of Technology ) And : Olle Johansson , Ph.D. , Associate Professor ( Karolinska Institute in Stockholm ) to the Maine State Legislature Dr . Magda Havas , S.Sc. , Ph.D. , Environmental and Resource Studies Program , Associate Professor of Environmental and Resource Studies at Trent University in Canada , to the California Council on Science and Technology at their request for input regard Smart Meters Health Impacts of Radio Frequency from Smart Meters Comments on the Draft Report by the California Council on Science and Technology Hebrew University-Hadassah Letter from a physician to the Maine PUC about a patient Comments on California Council on Science and Technologys Smart Meter Report , January 2011 Nancy Evans , Health Science Consultant , San Francisco New Study : Radiation from Cordless Phone Base Station Affects the Heart Smart meter do not save energy . Press Release from Connecticut 's Attorney General Jepsen Urges State Regulators to Reject CL & Ps Plan to Replace Electric Meters - February 8 , 2011 Some SmartMeter Customers Say Devices Make Them Sick Smart meter : public health nightmare or public utility boon ? Consumers Are Getting Sick From Wireless Smart Meters Legislative Letter - To Members of the Michigan House of Representatives , Michigan Senate , and Adminstrative Officers The Green Sheen Wearing Thin- How Corporate Environmental Organizations be Providing Cover for the Mounting Ecological Catastrophe of the Smart Grid MIT : Smart meter could cause grid instability Obviously do n't work , but at least he try . Not base on health concern : Third Texas lawmaker urge a smart meter moratorium 