SuperSpeed USB 3.0 FAQ | Everything USB F G : T R tip @ everythingusb.com Home Reviews Gaming Peripherals Gaming Headsets Gaming Keyboards Gaming Mice Input Devices Keyboards Mice & Trackballs Tablets & Touchpads Laptop Coolers Storage Desktop Hard Drives Portable Hard Drives USB 3.0 Flash Drives USB 2.0 Flash Drives USB Drive Adapters USB 3.0 Cards USB Audio Audio Conversion USB Sound Cards USB Speakers VoIP USB Hubs & Docks USB Toys Video USB Display Adapters USB Monitors Webcams Features USB 3.0 FAQ USB Drive Benchmark USB 3.0 Comparison USB 2.0 FAQ USB Flash Drive FAQ Wireless USB FAQ News Audio Gaming Input Devices Laptop Accessories Media Players Novelty Flash Drives Security Storage USB Apps USB Chargers USB Gadgets USB Upgrades Video About - Main menu - Home Reviews - - Gaming Peripherals - - - - Gaming Headsets - - - - Gaming Keyboards - - - - Gaming Mice - - Input Devices - - - - Keyboards - - - - Mice & Trackballs - - - - Tablets & Touchpads - - Laptop Coolers - - Storage - - - - Desktop Hard Drives - - - - Portable Hard Drives - - - - USB 3.0 Flash Drives - - - - USB 2.0 Flash Drives - - - - USB Drive Adapters - - USB 3.0 Cards - - USB Audio - - - - Audio Conversion - - - - USB Sound Cards - - - - USB Speakers - - - - VoIP - - USB Hubs & Docks - - USB Toys - - Video - - - - USB Display Adapters - - - - USB Monitors - - - - Webcams Features - - USB 3.0 FAQ - - USB Drive Benchmark - - USB 3.0 Comparison - - USB 2.0 FAQ - - USB Flash Drive FAQ - - Wireless USB FAQ News - - Audio - - Gaming - - Input Devices - - Laptop Accessories - - Media Players - - Novelty Flash Drives - - Security - - Storage - - USB Apps - - USB Chargers - - USB Gadgets - - USB Upgrades - - Video About SuperSpeed USB 3.0 FAQ You be here : Home Features SuperSpeed USB 3.0 FAQ 18 January 2013 , Comments : 29 Dubbed SuperSpeed USB , USB 3.0 promise a major leap forward in transfer speed and capability , while maintain backwards compatibility with USB 2.0 device . It may sound straightforward , but a lot have have to change ; in this FAQ we will address the most common question about USB 3.0 and explain in plain English what it all mean . What be USB 3.0 ? USB 3.0 be the next major revision of the ubiquitous Universal Serial Bus , create in 1996 by a consortium of company lead by Intel to dramatically simplify the connection between PC and peripheral . It be in fact the first major revamp ( follow Wireless USB and USB On-the-Go ) to stay current with modern demand for connectivity bandwidth . Fast forwarding to 2012 , USB 2.0 have be firmly entrench a the de-facto interface standard in the PC world for a decade . Yet there still the need for more speed by ever great bandwidth demand from device , such a a SandForce flash drive , 7200-rpm hard drive or dual-head HD video adapter , again drive u to where a couple of hundred megabit per second be just not fast enough . In 2007 , Intel demonstrate SuperSpeed USB at the Intel Developer Forum . Version 1.0 of the USB 3.0 ( confuse , isnt it ? ) specification be complete on November 17 , 2008 . As such , the USB Implementers Forum have take over manage the specification and publishes the relevant technical document necessary to allow developer and hardware manufacturer to begin to develop product around the USB 3.0 protocol . What be the major USB 3.0 improvement ? In a nutshell , USB 3.0 promise the follow : Higher transfer rate ( up to 4.8Gbps ) Increased maximum bus power New power management feature Full-duplex data transfer Support for new transfer type Backward USB 2.0 compatibility New connector and cable The enhancement to SuperSpeed USB be not just for high data rate , but for improve the interaction between device and host computer . While the core architectural element be inherit from before , several change be make to support the dual bus arrangement , and several more be notable for how user can experience the improvement that USB 3.0 make over USB 2.0 : More power when need 50 % more power be provide for unconfigured or suspend device ( 150 mA up from 100 mA ) , and 80 % more power be available for configure device ( 900 mA up from 500 mA ) . This mean that more power-hungry device , such a a 22 monitor or speedy portable drive , could be bus power , and battery power device that previously charge use bus power could potentially charge more quickly . A new Powered-B receptable be define with two extra contact that enable a device to provide up to 1000 mA to another device , such a a Wireless USB adapter . This eliminate the need for a power supply to accompany the wireless adaptercoming just a bit closer to the ideal system of a wireless link without wire ( not even for power ) . In regular wire USB connection to a host or hub , these 2 extra contact be not use . Less power when it not need Power efficiency be a key objective in the move to USB 3.0 . Some example of more efficient use of power be : Link level power management , which mean either the host computer or the device can initiate a power saving state when idle The ability for link to enter progressively low power management state when the link partner be idle Continuous device poll be eliminate Broadcast packet transmission through hub be eliminate Device and individual function level suspend capability allow device to remove power from all , or portion of their circuitry not in use Streaming for bulk transfer be support for fast performance Isochronous transfer allow device to enter low power link state between service interval Devices can communicate new information such a their latency tolerance to the host , which allow good power performance What improvement be make to USB 3.0 cable & hub ? Not everything in USB 3.0 be a clear improvement . Cable length , for one , be expect to have a significant limitation when use in application demand the high possible throughput.Although maximum cable length be not specify in the USB 3.0 specification , the electrical property of the cable and signal quality limitation may limit the practical length to around 3 metre when multi-gigabit transfer rate be desire . This length , of course , can be extend through the use of hub or signal extenders . Additionally , some USB 3.0 hardware , such a hub , may always be more expensive than their USB 2.0 counterpart . This be because by definition , a SuperSpeed hub contain 2 hub : one that enumerate as a SuperSpeed hub , and a second one that enumerate as a regular high-speed hub . Until the USB hub silicon become an integrated SuperSpeed USB plus Hi-Speed USB part , there may always be a significant price difference . Some unofficial discussion have surface on the web with respect to fiber-optic cabling for long cable length with USB 3.0 . The specification make no mention of optical cabling , so we conclude that this will be define in a future spec revision , or leave to 3rd party company to implement cable extension solution for SuperSpeed USB . What new application do USB 3.0 enable ? In a nutshell , any high-bandwidth device that work with USB 2.0 will become good if update with USB 3.0 support . At the moment , device that tax the throughput of USB 2.0 include external hard drive , video capture , webcam , video adapter , multi-channel audio interface and last but not least , Blu-ray burner . High end flash drive can also push USB 2.0 pretty hard , and oftentimes if multiple device be connect via hub , throughput will suffer.USB 3.0 open up the laneways and provide more headroom for device to deliver a good overall user experience . Where USB video be barely tolerable previously ( both from a maximum resolution , latency , and video compression perspective ) , it easy to imagine that with 5 to 10 time the bandwidth available , USB video solution should work that much well . Single-link DVI require almost 2Gbps throughput . Where 480Mbps be limit , 4.8Gbps be more than promise . At such speed , the standard will find it way into some product that previously werent USB territory , like external RAID storage system . Is fast USB 3.0 already plan ? A rather surprising announcement be make during CES 2013 that the official USB promoter group have a grand plan to double speed of USB 3.0 to 10Gbps from current 4.8Gbps . This be a clear response to the threat of Thunderbolt which be still slow at gaining traction . Though detail regard so-called USB 3.1 be still sketchy on the technical aspect a of this writing.Existing connector would still work , yet new cable may not be need if they be test capable of operating at 10Gbps . There will even be improve data-encoding efficiency for application like video and audio . Software stack and class protocol will also work seamlessly with the amend version of USB 3.0 . Whats certain be that the new spec wont be complete until late half of 2013 . First wave of double-speed USB 3.0 product likely wont hit store until 2015 . Frankly speaking , there a 8 year gap between USB 3.0 and 2.0 ; few really expect a revision just 5 year after the formal introduction of the current standard in 2008 . How do USB 3.0 achieve the extra performance ? USB 3.0 achieves the much high performance by way of a number of technical change . Perhaps the most obvious change be an additional physical bus that be add in parallel with the exist USB 2.0 bus.This mean that where USB 2.0 previously have 4 wire ( power , ground , and a pair for differential data ) , USB 3.0 add 4 more for two pair of differential signal ( receive and transmit ) for a combined total of 8 connection in the connector and cable . These extra two pair be necessary to support the SuperSpeed USB target bandwidth requirement , because the two wire differential signal of USB 2.0 be not enough . Furthermore , the signaling method , while still host-directed , be now asynchronous instead of poll . USB 3.0 utilizes a bi-directional data interface rather than USB 2.0s half-duplex arrangement , where data can only flow in one direction at a time . Without get into any more technical mumbo jumbo , this all combine to give a ten-fold increase in theoretical bandwidth , and a welcome improvement noticeable by anyone when SuperSpeed USB product hit the market . Isnt USB 2.0 fast enough ? Well , yes and no . USB 2.0 for many application provide sufficient bandwidth for a variety of device and hub to be connect to one host computer . However , with today ever increase demand place on data transfer with high-definition video content , terrabyte storage device , high megapixel count digital camera , and HD video capture and portable medium player , 480Mbps be not really fast anymore.Furthermore , no USB 2.0 connection could ever come close to the 480Mbps theoretical maximum throughput , make data transfer at around 320Mbps ( 40MB/s ) the actual real-world maximum . Similarly , USB 3.0 connection will never achieve 4.8Gbps . We will likely see a real-world maximum rate of 400MB/s with overhead . At this speed , USB 3.0 be a 10x improvement over USB 2.0 . What operate system support USB 3.0 ? Apple Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) and Microsoft Windows 8 both shipping in 2012 come with native USB 3.0 support whereas third party driver for Windows 7 , Vista and XP have be availablesince 2008 . Mountain Lion Apple have remain silent on the issue of USB 3.0 support in Mac OS X even when the public know well that Macs will eventually get Ivy Bridge ( Intel third-gen Core i CPUs ) whose Panther Point platform come with USB 3.0 , for free . For a while , there be an ongoing debate over whether or not Apple will adopt USB 3.0 give it enthusiasm for Thunderbolt . But in mid-June 2012 at WWDC , Apple finally introduce USB 3.0 to it entire line of MacBook Air and MacBook Pro a part of Ivy Bridge processor refresh and at the same time , OS X Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) be announce to ship in the following month . So , USB 3.0 support on Macs officially begin with Mountain Lion . LaCie and HighPoint have develop their own USB 3.0 driver for Mac to work with Mac OS X from Leopard ( 10.5 ) . LaCie solution however only work with it own drive , include FastKey SSD , 2big RAID , Rikiki portable drive . Windows 8 In October 2012 , Microsoft start ship Windows 8 with built-in USB 3.0 support . The Windows team say it have write completely new software stack for USB 3.0 rather than add support on top of the current USB 1.1/2.0 driver . To save time , work on USB 3.0 software stack actually begin way before there be any peripheral so the engineer have to come up with something call virtual USB 3.0 device for simulation . In retrospect , the team probably have plenty of time since USB 3.0 wasnt an instant hit and be slow to take off . Built-in support for USB Attached SCSI Protocol ( UASP ) will come as well . This will supplement Bulk-Only Transport ( BOT ) which have it root in USB 1.1 . USAP class driver , which benefit mass storage application , add command queue to deal with multiple concurrent request and offer low overhead than BOT protocol . In other word , you will see even fast transfer rate and low CPU usage . Only a handful of USB 3.0 drive support USAP a of this writing but on Windows 8 , USAP mode will only kick in when the drive interface with a USB 3.0 host controller that conform to xHCI 1.0 specification . Windows 7 , Vista & XP Intel , Renesas and other fabs have be update their own stable USB 3.0 software stack for Windows 7 , Vista and XP in the last several year . So theres no reason for u to believe Redmond be in any hurry to bring USB 3.0 support via service pack to the aforementioned Windows platform . Will my exist peripheral still work ? How will they co-exist ? The good news be that USB 3.0 have be carefully plan from the start to peacefully co-exist with USB 2.0 . First of all , while USB 3.0 specifies new physical connection and thus new cable to take advantage of the high speed capability of the new protocol , the connector itself remain the same rectangular shape with the four USB 2.0 contact in the exact same location a before . Five new connection to carry receive and transitted data independently be present on USB 3.0 cable and only come into contact when mat with a proper SuperSpeed USB connection . http : //pulse.yahoo.com/_JLE6OHMERVRVN23TAUGLEQPBLQ Stan I know I be a redneck from simple ole Alabama and we aint up tuh date wit all yur fancy jabber jawin . Maybe we might be take more seriously if it be know more universally at least where a lot of u live be near nuclear plant , rocket plant , and NASA ( aka : Rocket City , Huntsville , AL ) . Just answer the question instead of give a history lesson on USBs origin and development . I start out just wonder if I be go to have to ditch everything with a USB2 connection to find out about compatibility of any new peripheral device I may add and wind up at the end of Mr. I , like to read my own article . In fact that be where I will begin look for answer from now on at the end of the search . stanley alvarez amazes me how people do something for free , take the time to try to put something out there useful for the public at no cost to them and then they have the audacity to complain . a for information provide here it be quite thorough and appreciate . fyi for anyone look for a more basic explanation , fine tune your search criterion and if you dont like what you see at first try another selection . my thanks to the author for providing u a service/information free of charge . honest to goodness southern hospitality still exist out there though , our family for one have not forget that part of our heritage.fyi , my mother family settle tennessee back when it be carolina long before trailer park redneck . troll unfortunately know and care little about common courtesy and know no boundary , on so many level . back on topic , look like i will be need to get some new cable to hook the external drive . jeff005ab There be a really good update to the USB 3.0 faq here . http : //www.ptgrey.com/news/usb3.asp # FAQ Its gear towards use USB 3.0 a a camera stream interface but it have some good info on real lifethroughput ( 280 MByte/s ) http : //laussieswritingblog.blogspot.com/ Denise Covey yeh USB 3 seem ta do it all ! ! Sid Farkus I do live broadcast on USTREAM.TV use USB 2.0 cam and cables.Bandwidth be an issue when use two or more cam . If I add USB 3.0 connector will I see any increase of ava . bandwidth ? Sid Farkus So add USB 3.0 to a PC with USB 2 web cam and cable will not increase the ava bandwith , correct ? gadgetronica With this sort of advancement in technology be we still go to be tether to 16 foot ( maximum ) cable with active repeater for extended length ? Yes , we probably will still be limit to the 16 foot barrier without the repeater . So far , USB 3.0 still run on copper cabling with most likely the same inherent limitations.Source : http : //gadgetronica.com/technopedia/USB-3.0-Data-Transfer-Redefined.html Tom Post Sadly , I be use Linux Kernel 2.6.35 ( Ubuntu 10.10 ) and USB 3.0 do not work reliably . Sometimes it be recognize and sometimes it be not ( a USB 3.0 pci-express card with 2 port ) . And I never get a USB 3.0 hub with 4 port to work . I be not alone . A Google search show a lot of frustration try to get USB 3.0 to work on all flavor of Linux and even new version . http : //www.facebook.com/dont.followshaik Shaik Saif wowowo what an improvement in serial bus Steffan Koch Do you have to have 3.0 connection on your computer to have the full advantage of the speed it offer ? ? aghast1000 Of course . Otherwise you ll just get USB 2.0 speed . http : //twitter.com/CompRep4U Computer Repair 4U Just buy a new motherboard with USB 3.0 and I be very impress with the speed when hook up my external drive . Saurabh Joshi USB 3.0 = Awesomeness PavolN Please can you send me website with late usb 3.0 driver . Site http : //www.usb3-drivers.com dont include late Fresco driver http : //profile.yahoo.com/EMU2FV332QGA2KHINZ3PFUJOMA Ken Too bad every single system Ive seen use USB 3.0 freeze . EdTwidley Too bad every single system Ive seen use USB 2.0 freeze and same for USB 1 hmm and Firewire and old school parallel port . Im working on a laptop this very moment that us USB3 and doesnt have a problem with it . http : //twitter.com/mickbanks Mike I wonder why we never saw USB3 on the iPad3 or Apples ThunderBolt for that matter nztdm no tablet have > 40MB/s flash memory yet . and it Intel Thunderbolt , not Apple . It be actually a Sony laptop that come with a thunderbolt port first . drx1 oye AFAIK Apple and Intel develop Thunderbolt ( also call LightPeak iirc ) . Apple be not often first , yet they frequently build a good implementation . They run TB on some early computer and the nice thing be you could easily have a TB to USB 3 adaptor TB certainly have the bandwidth for this . And now TB2 have be out for some time 20Gbps full duplex be not all that bad . I do think TB and USB 3 need some driver work , however but they be both new . Dave Brown If I have a USB 3.0 host controller , a USB 3.0 4-port hub , and 4 USB 2.0 device . Will each of the USB 2.0 device operate at full 2.0 speed ( 480Mbps ) ? Does use a USB 3.0 controller & hub make the bandwidth of 3.0 available to share across 2.0 device , or will the whole arrangement default back to USB 2.0 , 480Mbps total bandwidth ? the voluntary hostage I think it depend on the hub . More than likely , it should use the USB 3.0 speed to support more than one USB 2.0 device due to the idea you might hook up say a mouse and keyboard alongside a USB hard drive . While the drive would be USB 3.0 , I do not see any mouse and keyboard be USB 3.0 anytime soon since they have be very happy at 100mA give or take . I have yet to see anything high then 150mA on mouse yet except a wireless mouse that have a battery charger build into the receiver . Certain device will likely never use USB 3.0 so a mix config must be acceptable , maybe give certain USB device a high priority like the mouse and keyboard a well a webcam . However , I would rather have my file transfer take a minute longer than to have my mouse and keyboard lock up on me or my webcam go choppy . So by default of what the real world requirement be for such a device a a USB hub , I would expect that you could use multiple USB 2.0 device at full speed from a USB 3.0 hub if you be work from a USB 3.0 port to start with . If plug in a USB 2.0 or legacy device would disable all USB 3.0 support , that would be self defeat . http : //profile.yahoo.com/N7NDYR7U7VMB5HS6JMEH3WORQY PaigeMHughes So , if my laptop have USB 2.0 port , would it make any difference in transfer speed to buy a USB 3.0 external hard drive instead of a 2.0 Im thinking that my transfer speed be go to max out at the 2.0 capability , but I dont know enough to be certain . drx1 The internal HDD in the USB device be mostly likely faster ( but not necessarily ) than a USB 2.0 HDD . That say , the USB 3 device would be limit by the USB 2 specification/drivers/etc The good news would be once you upgrade or purchase a new system that include USB 3 , you would get the full benefit . Megha Do any of the USB3.0 mass storage device list above support the UAS protocol ? I want to do some throughput measurement , but cant figure out if the USB3.0 list actually support the UAS protocol ! drx1 USB 3.0 part deux ? So where be the double speed USB 3.0 ? I dont often pay full attention to CES . CES 2014 just finish I dont know anyone talk about USB 3.0 or otherwise TB be more prosumer/professional connection . TB2 ( 20Gbps/ full duplex ) be already out damn fast yet not cheap . USB 3 still seem like it be half support : 1 ) most USB 3 PCIe card be only PCIe 1x yet if you be PCIe v1 , 2 or possibly 3 there wont be much bandwidth for the card they should be 4x to 8x . 2 ) most USB 3 PCIe card have only two USB 3 port . They should have at least 4 port maybe more and of course be use 4 to 8 ( maybe even 16 ) lane for good bandwidth . 3 ) USB hub seem fairly rare and pricey . It be 2014 , I would have think thing would farther along maybe i miss something ? USB 3 hub would be important see point # 2 . awake an old thread ( hopefully ) ! Robert Mason need an answer.. have a usb3 external hard drive with it own wall wart for power.Thw drive us a standard usb3 cord which come with the unit . IT appear that the internal power be not isolate from the usb3 connector so power be actuallgoing out of the device and into the computer.This seem wrong to me but no one so far seem to have an answer for me . I would think isolation would be mandatory ? ? the voluntary hostage Its likely isolate in some way likely done with a scotchy diode . I will not get into what that be but it would provide 2 way isolation from both power source while allow them to both to power the load . Smart engineering would only have one power source per voltage . Hard drive need 5 volt while other need 12 volt . USB will provide some 5 volt power enough for most hard drive , but 12 volt would have to be external . It would not shock me to see an external 5 volt source and you have 2 part that would need 5 volt for the controller and the drive itself . I suspect the 5 volt even on USB 3.0 be cut it a bit close to run both I use to work for a TV repair tech . The tech reason you would not want to use 2 power source . Well isolating them with diode would create a voltage drop of .7 volt so your 5 volt would become 4.3 . If the diode be very over rat amp wise , you might get the drop down to .6 still not good . The second issue be the 2 power source would be affect by load differently and cause strange and sudden change in voltage . When the amperage change , this become less of an issue if the 2 source be power different load such a the USB to power the drive controller and the AC adapter to power the have drive . Now without any way to provide isolation on the USB end , you would likely have a 10k ohm leak from the AC adapter at 5 volt . So , if you get a power surge , it could fry the data transfer hardware of the USB 3.0 and not really affect the 5 volt power all that much . So , this really come down to how much surge protection be in the wall wart if the AC be big heavy and I suspect it be . If I be the engineer , it would contain an iron core transformer and large low voltage capacitor before and after a voltage regulator . I can not say what they do or do not do in make of this hard drive . If the external wall wort be big and heavy weighing close to a pound or more and big than 1.5 time the size of your fist , youre likely fine or just get a high end surge suppressor that will provide some protection . Robert Mason Thank you voluntary hostage . Your explanation answer my question . This unit have only a small light wall wart .Doubtful it offer any protection . I have find other digital device in my search that have a switch build into the power input on the device to disconnect the incoming USB3 power line from the device so there would be no crossover or two feed of power . I be still wonder how to find a safe properly build external drive/case without testing each one . The vendor seem to be clueless about this problem . Gilad USB3 offer a much faster bandwidth than USB2 but , technically , in the price of more wire that resolve in a thicker cable . USB3 be build with 9 wire , 4 be standard USB2 and 5 be the USB3 serial ( 2 differential transmit , 2 differential receive and one GND ) In an effort to make a thin & flexible cable , would it be possible to make a 5 wire cable , just with the USB3 wire ? Assuming that both side of the cable be USB3 ? Nothing on this in the standard Before I order connector and try this myself Thanks Featured Links Nexcopy Duplicators F G T : R Home Reviews Features News About 2014 Everything USB . All Rights Reserved . 