A Problem With Wind Power [ AWEO.org ] A Problem With Wind Power [ www.aweo.org ] [ click here for printer-friendly PDF ] by Eric Rosenbloom Wind power promise a clean and free source of electricity that would reduce our dependence on import fossil fuel and the output of greenhouse gas and other pollution . Many government be therefore promote the construction of vast wind `` farm , '' encourage private company with generous subsidy and regulatory support , require utility to buy from them , and set up market for the trade of `` green credit '' in addition to actual energy . The U.S. Department of Energy ( DOE ) aim to see 5 % of our electricity produce by wind turbine in 2010 . Energy company be eagerly invest in wind power , find the arrangement quite profitable . A little research , however , reveals that wind power do not in fact live up to the claim make by it advocate [ see part I ] , that it impact on the environment and people 's life be far from benign [ see part II ] , and that with such a poor record and prospect the money spent on it could be much more effectively direct [ see part III ] . Links to aid the reader 's own research be provide throughout this paper a well a at the end [ see Links ; off-site link will automatically open to a new window or tab ] . Click here for an abbreviated version of this paper . Click here for an even briefer version ( a handy model for letter ) . This paper be also available a a 7-page typeset PDF file ( 156 KB ) -- click here . I . [ Top II III Links ] In 1998 , Norway commission a study of wind power in Denmark and conclude that it have `` serious environmental effect , insufficient production , and high production cost . '' Denmark ( population 5.3 million ) have over 6,000 turbine that produce electricity equal to 19 % of what the country use in 2002 . Yet no conventional power plant have be shut down . Because of the intermittency and variability of the wind , conventional power plant must be keep run at full capacity to meet the actual demand for electricity . Most can not simply be turn on and off a the wind dy and rise , and the quick ramp up and down of those that can be would actually increase their output of pollution and carbon dioxide ( the primary `` greenhouse '' gas ) . So when the wind be blow just right for the turbine , the power they generate be usually a surplus and sell to other country at an extremely discount price , or the turbine be simply shut off . A writer in The Utilities Journal ( David J . White , `` Danish Wind : Too Good To Be True ? , '' July 2004 ) found that 84 % of western Denmark 's wind-generated electricity be export ( at a revenue loss ) in 2003 , i.e. , Denmark 's glut of wind tower provide only 3.3 % of the nation 's electricity . According to The Wall Street Journal Europe , the Copenhagen newspaper Politiken report that wind actually meet only 1.7 % of Denmark 's total demand in 1999 . ( Besides the amount export , this low figure may also reflect the actual net contribution . The large amount of electricity use by the turbine themselves be typically not account for in the usually cite output figure . Click here for information about electricity use in wind turbine . ) In Weekendavisen ( Nov. 4 , 2005 ) , Frede Vestergaard report that Denmark a a whole export 70.3 % of it wind production in 2004 . Denmark be just dependent enough on wind power that when the wind be not blow right they must import electricity . In 2000 they import more electricity than they export . And add to the Danish electric bill be the subsidy that support the private company build the wind tower . Danish electricity cost for the consumer be the high in Europe . [ Click here for a detailed and well reference examination by Vic Mason . ] The head of Xcel Energy in the U.S. , Wayne Brunetti , have say , `` We 're a big supporter of wind , but at the time when customer have the great need , it 's typically not available . '' Throughout Europe , wind turbine produce on average le than 20 % of their theoretical ( or rat ) capacity . Yet both the British and the American Wind Energy Associations ( BWEA and AWEA ) plan for 30 % . The figure in Denmark be 16.8 % in 2002 and 19 % in 2003 ( in February 2003 , the output of the more than 6,000 turbine in Denmark be 0 ! ) . On-shore turbine in the U.K. produce at 24.1 % of their capacity in 2003 . The average in Germany for 1998-2003 be 14.7 % . In the U.S. , usable output ( represent wind power 's contribution to consumption , accord to the Energy Information Agency ) in 2002 be 12.7 % of capacity ( use the average between the AWEA 's figure for instal capacity at the end of 2001 and 2002 ) . In California , the average be 20 % . The Searsburg plant in Vermont average 21 % , decline every year . This percentage be call the load factor or capacity factor . The rat generate capacity only occur during 100 % ideal condition , typically a sustain wind speed over 30 mph . As the wind slow , electricity output fall off exponentially . [ Click here for more about the technicality of wind a a power source , a well a energy consumption data . Click here for conversion between and explanation of energy unit . ] In high wind , ironically , the turbine must be stop because they be easily damage . Build-up of dead bug have be show to halve the maximum power generate by a wind turbine , reduce the average power generate by 25 % and more . Build-up of salt on off-shore turbine blades similarly have be show to reduce the power generate by 20 % -30 % . Eon Netz , the grid manager for about a third of Germany , discuss the technical problem of connect large number of wind turbine [ click here ] : Electricity generation from wind fluctuates greatly , require additional reserve of `` conventional '' capacity to compensate ; high-demand period of cold and heat correspond to period of low wind ; only limit forecast be possible for wind power ; wind power need a corresponding expansion of the high-voltage and extra-high-voltage grid infrastructure ; and expansion of wind power make the grid more unstable . [ Click here for a good explanation of why wind-generated power can not usefully contribute to the grid and only cause great problem , include the use of more `` conventional '' fuel . ] Despite their be cite a the shining example of what can be accomplish with wind power , the Danish government have cancel plan for three offshore wind farm plan for 2008 and have schedule the withdrawal of subsidy from exist site . Development of onshore wind plant in Denmark have effectively stop . Because Danish company dominate the wind industry , however , the government be under pressure to continue their support . Spain begin withdraw subsidy in 2002 . Germany reduce the tax break to wind power , and domestic construction drastically slow in 2004 . Switzerland also be cut subsidy a too expensive for the lack of significant benefit . The Netherlands decommission 90 turbine in 2004 . Many Japanese utility severely limit the amount of wind-generated power they buy , because of the instability they cause . For the same reason , Ireland in December 2003 halt all new wind-power connection to the national grid . In early 2005 , they be consider end state support . In 2005 , Spanish utility begin refuse new wind power connection . In 2006 , the Spanish government end -- by emergency decree -- it subsidy and price support for big wind . In 2004 , Australia reduce the level of renewable energy that utilities be require to buy , dramatically slow wind-project application . On August 31 , 2004 , Bloomberg News report that `` the unstable flow of wind power in their network '' have force German utility to buy more expensive energy , require them to raise price for the consumer . [ Note , April 2012 : State support for industrial wind fluctuate , but the trend note here have continue . ] A German Energy Agency study release in February 2005 after some delay [ click here ] state that increase the amount of wind power would increase consumer cost 3.7 time more than otherwise and that the theoretical reduction of greenhouse gas emission could be achieve much more cheaply by simply instal filter on exist fossil-fuel plant . A similar conclusion be make by the Irish grid manager in a study release in February 2004 [ click here for 172-KB PDF ] : `` The cost of CO 2 abatement arise from use large level of wind energy penetration appear high relative to other alternative . '' In Germany , utility be force to buy renewable energy at sometimes more than 10 time the cost of conventional power , in France 3 time . In the U.K. , the Telegraph have report that rather than provide cheap energy , wind power cost the electric company 50 per megawatt-hour , compare to 15 for conventional power . The wind industry be worry that the U.K. , too , be start to see that it be only subsidies and requirement on utility to buy a certain amount of `` green '' power that prop up the wind tower and that it be a colossal waste of resource . The BWEA have even resort to threatening prominent opponent a more project be successfully block . Interestingly , long-term plan for energy use and emission reduction by both the U.K. and the U.S. government do not mention wind [ click here for more about this ( the article be in Spanish ) ] . Flemming Nissen , head of development at the Danish utility Elsam , tell a meeting in Copenhagen , May 27 , 2004 , `` Increased development of wind turbine do not reduce Danish CO 2 emission . '' Installation of wind tower can not hope to keep up with the continue increase of energy use . Denmark 's annual production from wind turbine increase 28 petajoules ( PJ , 1 PJ 278,000 MW-h ) from 1990 to 1998 , but total energy consumption increase 115 PJ . The International Energy Agency report that from 1990 to 2002 , Denmark 's annual production from wind turbine rise 3,689 GW-h , but total electricity production rise 12,730 GW-h . The Danish government 's National Environmental Research Institute report that in 2003 greenhouse gas emission increase 7.3 % over 2002 level [ click here ] . In the U.K. ( population 60 million ) , 1,010 wind turbine produce 0.1 % of their electricity in 2002 , accord to the Department of Trade and Industry . The government hop to increase the use of renewables to 10.4 % by 2010 and 20.4 % by 2020 , require many ten of thousand more tower . As demand will have grow , however , even more turbine will be require . In California ( population 35 million ) , accord to the state energy commission , 14,000 turbine ( about 1,800 MW capacity ) produce half of one percent of their electricity in 2000 . Extrapolating this record to the U.S. a a whole , and without accounting for an increase in energy demand , well over 100,000 1.5-MW wind tower ( cost $ 150-300 billion ) would be necessary to meet the DOE 's goal of a mere 5 % of the country 's electricity from wind by 2010 . The DOE say there be 18,000 square mile of good wind site in the U.S. , which with current technology could produce 20 % of the country 's electricity . This rosy plan , base on the wind industry 's sale brochure , a well a on a claim of electricity use that be only three-quarters of the actual use in 2002 , would require `` only '' 142,060 1.5-MW tower . They also explain , `` If the wind resource be well match to peak load , wind energy can effectively contribute to system capacity . '' That 's a big if -- count on the wind to blow exactly when demand rise -- especially if you expect the wind to cover 20 % ( or even 5 % ) of that demand . As in Denmark and Germany , you would quickly learn that the prudent thing to do be to look elsewhere first in meeting the load demand . And we 'd be stuck with a lot of generally unhelpful hardware cover every windy spot in the U.S. , while the developer would be look to put up yet more to make up for and deny their failing . Click here to see what have already happen in California and Germany and would happen everywhere . As in Denmark and Germany , the electricity from those tower -- no matter how many -- would be too variable to provide the predictable supply that the grid demand . They would have no effect on established electricity generation , energy use , or continue pollution . Christopher Dutton , the CEO of Green Mountain Power , a partner in the Searsburg wind farm in Vermont and an advocate of alternative energy source , have say ( in an interview with Montpelier's The Bridge ) that there be no way that wind power can replace more traditional source , that it value be only a a supplemental source that have no impact on the base load supply . `` By it very nature , it 's unreliable , '' say Jay Morrison , senior regulatory counsel for the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association . [ Click here for a report on the Searsburg plant 's poor record . ] [ Click here to read about wind power 's minuscule impact on CO 2 emission . ] [ Click here for a look at a U.N.-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Technical Paper that similarly show wind power 's miniscule part in the mitigation of CO 2 release . ] As Country Guardian , a U.K. conservation group , put it , wind farm constitute an increase in energy supply , not a replacement . They do not reduce the cost -- environmental , economic , and political -- of other mean of energy production . If wind tower do not reduce conventional power use , then their manufacture , transport , and construction only increase the use of dirty energy . The presence of `` free and green '' wind power may even give people license to use more energy . II . [ Top I III Links ] [ this section : Size ; Birds , bat , and other wildlife ; Noise ; Jobs , tax , and property value ; Other problem ; Conclusion ] Size Pictures from the energy company show slim tower rise cleanly from the landscape or hover faintly in the distant haze , their presence modulate by soft cloud behind them . But a 200- to 300-foot tower support a turbine house the size of a bus and three 100- to 150-foot rotor blade sweep over an acre of air at more than 100 mph require , for a start , a large and solid foundation . On a GE 1.5-MW tower , the turbine house , or nacelle , weighs over 56 ton , the blade assembly weigh over 36 ton , and the whole tower assembly total over 163 ton . [ Click here for a perspective on their size . Click here for the spec of popular model . ] As FPL ( Florida Power & Light ) Energy say , `` a typical turbine site take about a 4242-foot-square gravel area . '' Each tower ( and a site need at least 15-20 tower to make investment worthwhile ) requires a huge hole fill with steel rebarreinforced concrete ( e.g. , 1,250 ton in each foundation at the facility in Lamar , Colo. ) . According to Country Guardian , the hole be large enough to fit three double-decker bus . At the 89-turbine Top of Iowa facility , the foundation of each 323-foot assembly be a 7-feet-deep 42-feet-diameter octagon fill with 25,713 pound of reinforce steel and 181 cubic yard of concrete . The foundation at the Wild Horse project in Washington be 30 foot deep . At Buffalo Mountain in Tennessee , too , each foundation be at least 30 foot deep and may contain more than 3,500 cubic yard of concrete ( production of which be a major source of CO 2 ) . On Cefn Croes in Wales the developer build a complete concrete factory on the site , which be not unusual , a well a open quarry to provide rock for new road -- neither of which activity be part of the original planning application [ click here for photo of the abhorrent destruction on Cefn Croes ] . On many such mountain ridge a well a other location , it would be necessary to blast into the bedrock , a Enxco 's New England representative , John Zimmerman , have confirm , possibly disrupt the water source for well downhill . At the Waymart plant in Pennsylvania , the foundation extend 30-40 foot into the bedrock . At Romney Marsh in southern England , foundation pillar will be sunk 110 foot . For each 6-feet-deep foundation at the Crescent Ridge facility in Illinois , another 24 foot be dug out and fill with sand . Construction at a site on the Slieve Aughty range in Ireland in October 2003 cause a 2.5-mile-long bog slide . ( Building on peat bog be recognize as a serious disruption of an important carbon sink ; the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds opposes wind development on the Scottish island of Lewis because the turbine would take 25 year to theoretically save the amount of carbon that their construction will release from the peat ( not to mention the threat to bird -- see below ) . Clearing forest for facility on mountain ridge be an analogous situation . Such mountaintop clear have serious runoff implication a well a document at the Meyersdale plant in Pennsylvania . ) FPL Energy also say , `` although construction be temporary [ a few month ] , it will require heavy equipment , include bulldozer , grader , trench machine , concrete truck , flatbed truck , and large crane . '' [ Click here for picture of tower be instal . ] Getting all the equipment , a well a the huge tower section and rotor blade , into an undeveloped area require the construction of wide straight strong road . Many exist road , particularly in hilly area , be inadequate . For the Buffalo Mountain project , curve be widen , switchbacks be eliminate , and portion be repaved . The weight of the material have damage exist road . Many an ancient hedgerow in England have be sacrifice for access to project site . The destructive impact that such construction would have , for example , on a wild mountain top , be obvious . Erosion , disruption of water flow , and destruction of wild habitat and plant life would continue with the presence of access road , power line , transformer , and the tower sit themselves . For good wind efficiency , each tower require tree to be clear . Vegetation would be keep down with herbicide , further poisoning the soil and water . Each tower should be at least 5-10 time the rotor diameter from neighbor tower and tree for optimal performance . For a tower with 35-meter rotor , that be 1,200-2,400 foot , a quarter to a half of a mile . A site on a forested ridge would require clear 45-90 acre per tower to operate optimally ( although only 4-6 acre of clearance per tower , the tower space every 500-1,000 foot , be typical , make them almost useless when the wind be not a perfect crosswind ) . The Danish grid operator Eltra have find that a turbine can decrease the production of another turbine 5 kilometer ( 3.1 mile ) away . The propose 45-square-mile facility on the Scottish island of Lewis represents 50 acre for each megawatt of rat capacity . FPL Energy say it require 40 acre per instal megawatt , and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) say 60 acre be likely . Facilities worldwide generally use 30-70 acre per megawatt , i.e. , about 120-280 acre for every megawatt of likely average output ( 25 % capacity factor ) . [ Click here for a list of the area of some facility . ] GE boast that the span of their rotor blade be large than the wingspan of a Boeing 747 jumbo jet . The typical 1.5-MW assembly be two story high than the Statue of Liberty , include it base and pedestal . The editor of Windpower Monthly write in September 1998 , `` Too often the public have felt dupe into envisioning fairy tale 'parks ' in the countryside . The reality have be an abrupt awakening . Wind power station be no park . '' They be industrial and commercial installation . They do not belong in wilderness area . As the U.K. Countryside Agency have say , it make no sense to tackle one environmental problem by instead create another . In Vermont , billboard be ban from the highway , and development -- especially at site above 2,500 foot -- be subject to strong environmental law , yet many who call themselves environmentalist absurdly support the installation of wind farm on our mountain ridge line a a desirable trade-off , ignore wind 's dismal record a describe in part I . Even if one think that jumbo-jet-sized wind tower dominate every ridge line in sight like a giant barbed-wire fence be a beautiful thing , many people be draw to wild place to avoid such reminder of human industrial might . Many community depend on such tourist , who will now seek some other -- a yet unspoiled -- retreat . Birds , Bats , and Other Wildlife The spinning blades kill and maim bird and bat . The Danish Wind Industry Association , for example , admit a much by pointing out that so do power line and automobile . ( The argument follow the aesthetic one that the landscape be already blight in many way , so why not blight it some more ? ) The industry claim that move from lattice-work tower , which provide roost and nest platform , to solid tower , a well a large lower-rpm blade , solve the problem , and that study find very few dead bird around wind turbine . They ignore the fact that the large blade be in fact slice the air faster ( 150-200 mph at their tip , that scavenger will have remove most injure and dead bird before researcher arrive for their periodic survey , and that many area where dead and injure bird ( and bat -- see below ) might fall be inaccessible . Especially vulnerable be large bird of prey that like to fly in the same sort of place that developer like to construct wind tower . Fog -- a common situation on mountain ridge -- aggravates the problem for all bird . Guidelines from the U.S . Fish and Wildlife Service ( FWS ) state that wind tower should not be near wetland or other known bird or bat concentration area or in area with a high incidence of fog or low cloud ceiling , especially during spring and fall migration . It be illegal in the U.S. to kill migratory bird . The FWS have prevent any expansion of the several Altamont Pass wind plant in California , reject a well the claim that new solid tower would mitigate the problem . [ Click here to read the Fish and Wildlife Service recommendation . ( Click here to read new recommendation release in 2010 . ) ] A 2002 study in Spain estimate that 11,200 bird of prey ( many of them already endanger ) , 350,000 bat , and 3,000,000 small bird be kill each year by wind turbine and their power line . Another analysis [ click here -- the article be in Spanish ] find that it be officially recognize ( and obscure , generally by implying monthly figure a annual ) that on average a single turbine tower kill 20-40 bird each year . The U.S. FWS note that European wind power may kill up to 37 bird per turbine each year . The wind industry , in contrast , cite the absurdly low result of a single very spotty study at one site a gospel . Windpower Monthly report in October 2003 that the shock number of bat be kill by wind tower in the U.K. be cause trouble for developer . The president of Bat Conservation International , Merlin Tuttle , have say , `` We 're find kill even in the most remote turbine out in the middle of prairie , where bat do n't fee . '' At least 2,000 bat be kill on Backbone Mountain in West Virginia in just 2 month during their 2003 fall migration . Continuing research have find that rate to be typical all year , or even low , for wind turbine on forest ridge [ click here ] . Wildlife on the ground be displace as well . Prairie bird be especially affect by disturbance of their habitat , and construction on mountain ridge diminish important forest interior far beyond the extent of the clearing itself . A visitor to the Backbone Mountain facility write [ click here ] , `` I look around me , to a place where month before have be prime country for deer , wild turkey , and yes , black bear , to see positively no sign of any of the animal about at all . This alarm me , so I scout in the wood that afternoon . All afternoon , I find no sign , sight , or peek of any animal about . '' Noise The same West Virginia writer find the noise from the turbine on Backbone Mountain to be `` incredible . It surprise me . It sound like airplane or helicopter . And it travel . Sometimes , you could not hear the sound standing right under one , but you hear it 3,000 yard down the hill . '' Yet the industry insist such noise be a thing of the past . Indeed , new turbine may have quieter bearing and gear , but the huge magnetized generator can not avoid produce a low-frequency hum , and the problem of 100-foot rotor blade chop through the air at 150-200 mph also be insurmountable . Every time each rotor pass the tower , the compression of air produce a deep resonate thump . In addition , the difference in wind speed between the top and bottom of the rotor create a rhythm in the `` swish '' of the blade through the air . The sound be project outwards , so that it be actually fairly quiet directly beneath the turbine , but far away the result sound , especially of several tower together , have be describe to be as loud a a motorcycle , like aircraft continually pass overhead , a `` brick wrap in a towel turn in a tumble drier , '' `` a if someone be mix cement in the sky , '' `` like a train that never arrive . '' It be a relentless rumble like unceasing thunder from an approaching storm . Enxco 's John Zimmerman admit at a meeting in Lowell , Vt. , `` Wind turbine do n't make good neighbor . '' [ Click here for one story from Fenner , N.Y. , where many other noise have be describe , include an eerie screech a the blade and nacelle assembly turn to catch the wind -- click here for a video record of these noise . ] The penetrating low-frequency aspect to the noise , a thudding vibration , much like the throbbing bass of a neighboring disco , travel much far than the usually measure `` audible '' noise . It may be why horse who be completely calm around traffic and heavy construction be know to become very upset when they approach wind turbine [ click here ] . Many people have complain that it cause anxiety and nausea . The only way to reduce it be to reduce the efficiency of the electricity production , i.e. , reduce the illusion of profitability . It ca n't be do . Advocates , when not deny the noise outright , suggest that the wind itself mask any noise the turbine assembly make . Rustling leave , however , be a very different sound than the thumping of a wind facility . And in developer ' output projection , they point out that the wind be very much more steady and strong up at the top of the tower , so even that rustle down on the ground be not always there when the turbine be turn . This be often the case at night and always the case in winter . In Oregon , wind developer complain they could not comply with regulation limit the increase of noise in rural and wild area . In May 2004 , the state weaken the noise regulation so installation of wind facility could go ahead . The European Union ( E.U . ) publish the result of a 5-year investigation into wind power , find noise complaint to be valid and that noise level could not be predict before develop a site . The AWEA acknowledge that a turbine be quite audible 800 foot away . The National ( U.S. ) Wind Coordinating Committee ( NWCC ) state , `` wind turbine be highly visible structure that often be locate in conspicuous setting ... they also generate noise that can be disturb to nearby resident . '' The NWCC recommend that wind turbine be instal no closer than half a mile from any dwelling . German marketer Retexo-RISP specify in 2004 that turbines not be place within 2 kilometer ( 1.25 mile ) of any dwelling [ click here ] ; wind turbine tower and their blade have become much big since then , so that distance would have to be increase a well . Communities in Germany , Wales , and Ireland claim that 3,000 foot away the noise be significant . Individuals around the world say they have to close their window and turn on the air conditioner when the wind turbine be active . The noise of a wind plant in Ireland be measure in 2002 at 60 dB 1 km ( 3,280 ft ) up wind . The subaural low-frequency noise be above 70 dB ( which be 10 time a loud on the logarithmic decibel scale ) . A German study in 2003 found significant noise level 1 mile away from a 2-year-old wind farm of 17 1.8-MW turbine , especially at night . In mountainous area the sound echo over large distance . A neighbor of the 20-turbine Meyersdale facility in southwest Pennsylvania find the noise level at his house , about a half mile away , to average 75 dB ( A ) over a 48-hour period , well above the level that the EPA say prevents sleep . In Vermont , the director of Energy Efficiency for the Department of Public Service , Rob Ide , have say that the noise from the 11 550-KW Searsburg turbine be significant a mile away . Residents 1.5 and even 3 mile downwind in otherwise quiet rural area suffer significant noise pollution . A criminal suit have be allow to go forward in Ireland against the owner and operator of a wind plant for noise violation of their environmental law . Also in Ireland , a developer have be force to compensate a homeowner for loss of property value , and many people have have their tax valuation reduce . In the Lake District of northwest England , a group have sue the owner and operator of the Askam wind plant , claim it be ruin their life . In January 2004 , a couple be award 20 % of the value of their home from the previous owner who do not tell them the Askam wind plant be about to be construct 1,800 foot away : `` because of damage to visual amenity , noise pollution , and the irritating flicker cause by the sun go down behind the moving blades . '' The tower of this plant be only 40 meter ( 130 foot ) high , with the rotor extend a further 24 meter ( 75 foot ) . Steve Molloy of West Coast Energy respond that loss of value of a property , although unfortunate , be not a material plan consideration and do not undermine the industry 's argument that the benefit of sustainable energy outweigh the objection . [ Click here for the news story . ] Don Peterson , senior director of Madison Gas & Electric , which operate 31 wind tower in Kewaunee County , Wisconsin , similarly dismiss complaint , say that most people , but not all , will get use to the sound of the machine . `` Like any noise , if you do n't like it , your brain be go to focus on it , '' he comfortingly tell the Beloit Daily News . Especially in relatively undeveloped area , there can be no question that the unnatural noise from a wind facility will be prominent . Just a 10-dB increase over exist level ( a typical limit for such project ) represents the subjective perception of a double of noise level . It have be report that one of the farmer who lease land for the wind tower have to buy the neighbor ' property because of the problem ( not just noise but also flicker and light at night ) . Wisconsin Public Service , operator of another 14 turbine in Kewaunee County , in 2001 offer to buy six neighbor property ; two owner accept , but two others file a lawsuit in January 2004 . [ Click here for a report of a study by Lincoln Township of the many ill effect of the Kewaunee County turbines . ] On January 6 , 2004 , the Western Morning News of Devon publish three article about noise problem , particularly the health effect of low-frequency noise , from wind turbine . Another interesting report , which note that the Nazis use low-frequency noise for torture , be publish in the January 25 Telegraph [ click here ] . Jobs , Taxes , and Property Values Despite the energy industry 's claim that wind farm create job ( `` revitalize struggle rural community , '' say Enxco ) , the fact be that , after the few month of construction -- much of it handle by import labor from the turbine company -- a typical large wind facility require just one maintenance worker . Of the 200 worker involve in construction of the 89-turbine Top of Iowa facility , only 20 be local ; seven permanent job be create . The average nationwide be 1-2 job per 20 MW instal capacity . The energy company also claim that they increase the local tax base . But that be more than offset by the loss of open land , the loss of tourism , the stagnation or decrease in property value throughout a much wider area , the tax credit such development typically enjoy , and the tax and fee consumer must pay to subsidize the industry . A lcoal `` windfall '' may also be offset by a corresponding loss of state fund . Even survey by wind promoter show that a quarter to a third of visitor would no longer come if wind turbine be instal . That be a huge loss in area that depend on tourism . The wind developer say that the turbine themselves be an attraction , but visitor center at wind farm in Britain be already close for lack of business . A few people get more money from lease their land for the tower ( until the developer start withhold it for some small-print reason , or even disappears after the tax advantage slow down -- Altamont Pass in California be litter with broken-down wind tower own by company long go ) , but that 's the opposite of an argument for the general good . Wind advocate insist that property value be not affect by nearby industrial turbine , because there will always be a buyer a it 's just a question of taste . That be small comfort to those who already own home near potential wind-plant site but whose taste militates against rattle window and hum wall , flicker light , 100-foot blade spin overhead , and giant metal tower and supply road where once be tree and moose trail . Other Problems The industry recognize that the flicker of reflect light on one side and shadow on the other drive people and animal crazy . And at night , the tower must be light , which the AWEA describe a a serious nuisance , destroy the dark sky that many people in rural area cherish ( and that the state of Vermont be on the verge of specifically protect ) . Red light be think to attract night-migrating bird . Ice be another problem . It build up when the blade be still and get fling off -- a far a 1,500 foot -- when they start spin . Accumulated ice on the nacelle and tower also fall off . John Zimmerman , the developer of Vermont 's Searsburg facility , write the follow to an AWEA discussion list in 2000 . `` When there be heavy rime ice build up on the blade and the machine be run you instinctually want to stay away . ... They roar and sound scarey . One time we find a piece near the base of the turbine that be pretty impressive . Three adult jump on it could n't break . It look to be 5 or 6 inch thick , 3 foot wide and about 5 foot long . Probably weigh several hundred pound . We could n't lift it . There be a couple of other piece nearby but we wonder where the rest of the piece go . '' Access to Searsburg be restrict when ice be likely . ( Even in good weather , they shut the turbine down when give tour . ) Issues of ice , noise , and structural damage and failure , particularly a they determine setback requirement , have be extensively document by John Mollica in response to the propose expansion of a wind facility on Wachusett Mountain in Massachusetts ( between Princeton and Fitchburg ) . [ Click here for the full report or here for a briefer presentation version . ] The planner of giant wind installation in Valencia , Spain , mention the dripping and fling off of motor oil ( almost 200 gallon of which may be present in a single 1.5-MW turbine ) and cool and clean fluid . The transformer at the base of each turbine contain up to 500 more gallon of oil . The substation transformer where a group of turbine connects to the grid contain over 10,000 gallon of oil each . The International Association of Engineering Insurers warn of fire : `` Damage by fire in wind turbine be usually cause by overheat bearing , a strike of lightning , or spark throw out when the turbine be slow down . ... Even the small spark can easily develop into a large fire before discovery be make or fire-fighting can begin . '' A 1995 study in Germany estimate that 80 % of insurance claim pay for wind turbine damage be cause by lightning . Lightning destroy many tower by cause the blade coating to peel off , render them useless . If the blade keep spin , the imbalance can bring down the whole tower . The tower be subject to metal fatigue , and the resin blades be easily damage even by wind . In Wales , Spain , Germany , France ( Dec. 22 , 2004 ; click here ) , Denmark ( Jan. 20 , 2005 ) , Japan ( Feb. 24 , 2005 ) , New Zealand ( Mar . 10 , 2005 ) , and Scotland ( Apr . 7 , 2005 ; click here ) , part and whole blade have tear off because of high wind , malfunction , and fire , fly a far a 8 kilometer and through the window of a home in one case . Whole tower have collapse in Germany ( a recently a 2002 ) and the U.S . ( e.g. , in Oklahoma , May 6 , 2005 ) [ Click here for an extensive compilation of accident . ] [ Click here for another overview of industrial wind power 's environmental problem . ] Conclusion All of these negative aspect will only become bad if even a small part of the industry 's plan for hundred of thousand of tower become reality . At every level , however , the negative impact must of course be weigh against the benefit . As describe in part I , these be neglible . III . [ Top I II Links ] It be wise to diversify the source of our energy . But the money and legislative effort invest in large-scale wind generation could be spend much more effectively to achieve the goal of reduce our use of fossil and nuclear fuel . As an example , Country Guardian calculate that for the U.K. government subsidy towards the construction of one wind turbine , they could insulate the roof of almost 500 house that need it and save in two year the amount of energy the wind turbine might produce over it lifetime . Country Guardian also calculate that if every light bulb in the U.K. be switch to a more efficient one , the country could shut down an entire power plant -- something even Denmark , with wind produce a much a 20 % of their electricity , be not able to do . According to solar energy consultant and retailer Real Goods , if every household in the U.S. replace one incandescent bulb with a compact fluorescent bulb , one nuclear power plant could be close . John Etherington claim that switch the most-used bulb in every house of the U.K. would save a much a the entire output of all exist and propose on-shore wind plant in that country . The BWEA itself say that the cost of save energy be less than half the cost of produce it . According to the California Power Authority ( ignoring the subsidy that low the market price of wind-generated electricity ) conservation cost exactly the same per KW-h a wind power . John Zimmerman admit at a February 2003 meeting in Kirby , Vermont , that we `` could do much more for our energy balance by just tighten our belt a little . '' As describe in part I , wind farm do not bring about any reduction in the use of conventional power plant . Requiring the upgrade of power plant to be more efficient and clean would actually do something rather than simply support the image of `` green '' power that energy company profit from while in fact do nothing to reduce pollution or fuel import . An April 2000 E.U . report find that , use exist technology , increase efficiency could decrease energy consumption by more than 18 % by 2020 . The U.N.-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have state that simple voluntary energy-efficiency improvement in building will reduce world energy use 10 % -15 % by 2020 . They state that , with technology already in use , efficiency improvement in building , manufacturing , and transport can reduce world carbon emission more than 50 % by 2020 . In the U.S. , 61.5 % of the energy use be `` lose , '' i.e. , only 38.5 % of the energy consume be actually extract [ click here ] . In transmission alone , 7.34 % of the electricity generate be lose . There be obviously much that can be improve in what we already have and will continue to live with for quite some time.. Electricity represents only 39 % of energy use in the U.S. ( in Vermont , 20 % ; and only 1 % of Vermont 's greenhouse gas emission be from electricity generation ) . Pollution from fossil fuel also come from transportation ( car , truck , aircraft , and ship ) and heating . Despite the manic installation of wind facility in the U.K. , their CO 2 emission rise in 2002 and 2003 . At a May 27 , 2004 , conference in Copenhagen , the head of development from the Danish energy company Elsam state , `` Increased development of wind turbine do not reduce Danish CO 2 emission . '' Demanding well gas mileage in car , include pickup truck and SUVs , promote rail for both freight and travel , and support the use of biodiesel ( for example , from hemp ) would make a huge impact on pollution and dependence on foreign oil , whereas wind power make none . New-generation diesel-powered car common in Europe use less than half the fuel a their gasoline counterpart in the U.S . Wind-power advocate often propose that wind turbine can be use to manufacture hydrogen for fuel cell . This may be an admirable plan ( although Windpower Monthly dismisses it for several reason in a May 2003 article ) but be so far in the future that it only serve to underscore the fact that there be no good reason for current construction . And it must be remember that a wind turbine be unable to produce significant amount of electricity they would likewise be unable to produce significant amount of hydrogen . On top of that , a 2004 study by the Institute for Lifecycle Environmental Assessment determine that hydrogen return only 47 % of the energy put into it , compare with pumped hydro return 75 % and lithium ion battery up to 85 % . On a small scale , where a turbine directly supply the user and the fluctuating production can be store , wind can contribute to a home , school , factory , office building , or even small village 's electricity . But this simply do not work on a large scale to supply the grid . Even the small benefit claim by their promoter be far outstrip by the huge negative impact . We be remind that there be trade-offs necessary to living in a technologically advance industrial society , that fossil fuel will run out , that global warming must be slow , and that the procurement and transport of fossil and nuclear fuel be environmentally , politically , and socially destructive . Sooner or late the reality of this modern life will have to reach into our own back yard , the common must be develop for our economic survival , and it would be elitist in the extreme to believe we deserve well . So wilderness area be sacrifice , rural community be bribe into becoming live-in ( but ineffective ) power plant , our government boast that they be look beyond fossil fuel ( while do nothing to actually reduce their use ) , and our electric bill go up to support `` investment in a greener future . '' And at the other end of this trade-off , multinational energy company reap great profit and fossil and nuclear fuel use continue to grow . Many alternative source of energy , a well a dramatic improvement in the use of current source , be in development . But wind turbine exist , so they be present by their manufacturer and manager a the solution . Every effort be make to maintain the illusion that they be in fact a solution when a few simple question reveal they be not . Links [ Top I II III ] Country Guardian be found in 1992 to oppose wind farm in unspoiled rural area of the U.K. Their web site be at www . countryguardian .net . It include a thorough summary of the case against industrial wind power , many view from people alarm at and who have experience the destruction wrought in the name of go green , and link to other group fight industrial wind installation . National Wind Watch be a U.S. coalition found in August 2005 . Their web site , contain key document , a resource library , a daily news feed , FAQ s , their own publication , video , and link to over 300 ally organization , be at www . wind-watch .org . A good series of newsletter be produce by Views of Scotland and available at www . viewsofscotland .org/library/publications.php . For information specific to off-shore siting of wind tower , which raise many issue not cover above , see www . saveoursound .org and www . windstop .org . For example , Greenpeace have be at the forefront of oppose the U.S. Navy 's use of low-frequency sonar , because of it disruption to wildlife , particularly whale . At the same time they be at the forefront of promote off-shore wind power plant , which produce low-frequency noise that have be measure at well over 100 dB , louder than the noise from an oil-drilling platform . The Daily Mirror ( U.K. ) report on June 6 , 2005 , that score of baby seal on Scroby Sands off Great Yarmouth be find dead -- born dead or abandon by their mother . Staff at the wildlife hospital involve say the wind facility there be to blame . Save our Sound , SafeWind , and WindStop be found to organize opposition to a very large wind power project between Cape Cod and Nantucket Island off the coast of Massachusetts . The industry and government voice mention also can be find on line : the American Wind Energy Association at www.awea.org , the British Wind Energy Association at www.bwea.com , the Danish Wind Industry Association ( in English ) at www.windpower.org/en/ , the U.S. Department of Energy at www.eia.doe.gov , the U.K. Department of Department of Energy and Climate Change at www.decc.gov.uk , and the Danish Energy Agency at www.ens.dk/en-us/Sider/forside.aspx . Manufacturers of large wind turbine include GE in the U.S. ( www.gepower.com/businesses/ge_wind_energy/en/index.htm ) and Vestas in Denmark ( www.vestas.com ) . The GE site include many picture of their installation . Specifications for several model from these and other company be collect at www.aweo.org/windmodels.html . For continue note on the issue raise in this paper , see the `` Out of Kirby Mountain `` web log . On this site : PDF version of this paper ( 68 KB ) a concise version of this paper a really concise version of this paper electricity consumption in wind turbine analysis of electricity production and use report of technical problem of wind power in German grid explanation of why wind turbine cause the use of more conventional fuel photo of wind facility in California and Germany analysis of CO 2 saving , by John Etherington wind generation in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change analysis of CO 2 mitigation picture show size of industrial turbine tower specification of popular industrial wind turbine photo of turbine tower be construct area cover by some facility U.S . Fish and Wildlife Service recommendation report of ill effect in Kewaunee County , Wisconsin essay examine the case for wind , from the Protect Rural Scotland Party letter to The Caledonian-Record ( St. Johnsbury , Vt. ) , by Bill Eddy letter to The Caledonian-Record , by Bill Klein letter to the Burlington ( Vt. ) Free Press , by Eric Rosenbloom 