Equipment : We Test the $ 199 Sous-Vide Circulator From Anova | Serious Eats Menu Serious Eats - seriouseats.com Topics Home Burgers Chicago Drinks Entertaining The Food Lab Grilling New York Pizza Quick Meals Sandwiches Sweets Vegetarian/Vegan Recipes All Recipes Serious Eats on Twitter Serious Eats on Facebook Serious Eats on Foursquare Serious Eats on Pinterest RSS Feeds Equipment : We Test the $ 199 Sous-Vide Circulator From Anova Sep 24 , 2013 11:30AM J. Kenji Lpez-Alt Managing Culinary Director Get the Recipes Sous-Vide 101 : Duck Breast Sous-Vide 101 : Tacos de Lengua Sous-Vide : Beef Tenderloin with Lemon-Parsley Butter Sous-Vide 101 : Spicy Rubbed Pork Chops with BBQ Sauce Sous-Vide Glazed Carrots Sous-Vide Burgers Asparagus with Bacon-Hazelnut Vinaigrette and Slow-Cooked Egg Sous-Vide Chicken with Sun-Dried Tomato Vinaigrette Sous-Vide Steaks [ Photographs : J. Kenji Lopez-Alt ] EDITOR 'S NOTE : Check out our update comparison of the Nomiku , Sansaire , and Anova here ! The great sous-vide circulator war of 2013 have officially start . Last month we test the Sansaire , the very first sub- $ 200 sous-vide circulator to hit the market . Prior to that release , a a home cook you either have to settle for the sous-vide supreme , an all-in-one that cost around $ 450 and have the disadvantage of lack active circulation ; or you have to pay top dollar for a circulator make by a lab equipment company such a Polyscience , the current industry leader . Well , Polyscience 's big competitor in the field of lab heater , chiller , and circulators , Anova , have drop the price of their home-use sous-vide circulator from $ 299 to $ 199 , place it in square competition with the Sansaire . Interestingly , the Anova sous-vide circulator have actually be on the market for over a year , but a nearly non-existent marketing strategy have let it fly under the radar for a long time . While the company deny that their price drop have anything to do with the release of the Sansaire , it seem a little bit too coincidental for it not to have weigh into their calculation . I get my hand on two copy of the Anova and test them out to see how they stack up to their competitor . Over the course of the last few week , I 've slow-cooked pork shoulder and pork belly . I 've cook steak , pork chop , and strip bass filet . I 've slow-cooked egg and cook carrot in their own juice . Essentially , the same battery of test I perform on the Sansaire . Like the Sansaire , the Anova be a circulating water heater design to attach to any large pot or container . It do this with a rubber-tipped screw that clamp it firmly in place . The build quality of this thing be top-notch , with heavy , tight-fitting metal and plastic part that feel like they 're build to last . The touch screen controller at the top feature a rubberized trim that feel very nice in the hand . Compared to Sansaire 's large metal clip , the screw mount be far more secureyou can turn a pot upside down with the thing attach and not worry about drop it . However , because of the height of the mount , you wo n't be able to clamp the Anova to any pot shorter than about 8 inch , somewhat limit it functionality . Twice I bring it over to friend place to cook with to find that the pot they have in their kitchen be not tall enough , forcing me to balance the unit on it base rather than clip it securely . The Sansaire 's large metal clip be not quite a firm in it grip , but it 's more versatile in term of what you can mount it on . The interface be touch-screen base and the unit be responsive , even with wet finger . Turn it on with a switch in the back , select F or C , set the temperature with a resolution to 1F increment , set the optional timer , then hit start and it will begin circulating and heating water . To be frank , the control be the only place where I 'd take a few mark off on the Anova . Touch screen be sleek and the readout be fun , but I do n't like have to go through a half dozen button press in order to simply get the machine up and run . It kind of reminds me of when microwave and oven all start pick up numerical keypad in the 90 's when the simple dial system be fast and easy in all respect . The screen also have an auto-shutdown that initiate after a little while , which mean that you need to press on it to double check that it 's set at the right temperature and hold . They 're minor , but exist , inconvenience . As for how the machine actually function in term of circulation and temperature-holding ability , I have no complaint . As a manufacturer of precision laboratory-grade equipment with a longstanding reputation in the field , you can bet your butt that it 's accurate . I have some minor issue with the first unit I receivedit have be calibrate to heat to 3 degree below what the readout display , but a it be a use model , I do n't dock any point off for thatanybody could have falsely calibrate it before I get my hand on it , and the new model that come with factory calibration work perfectly . The speed at which it heat water up from the tap be a hair under what the Sansaire be deliver , but not enough to make it a major deciding factor . One feature I do like be the ability to adjust the flow direction of the pump , allow you to point it outwards when you 've get a lot of irregularly shape bag in the bath for maximum convection , or towards the pot wall if you have delicate item like egg that should n't be disturb with too much turbulence . Check out how juicy that double-cut pork chop be ! ( Do n't worry , there 's a recipe come tomorrow ) . So the big question : Which $ 200 circulator should you buy ? The Sansaire or the Anova ? Unfortunately , I ca n't give a 100 % definite answer on that yet . The original Sansaire I test be their first work prototype and have an unfinished chassis . I 'll be get a completed model hopefully over the next few week . For those folk ask about the long-awaited Nomiku , well the maker decide not to send me a tester model when I tell them I be plan on testing and write about the Anova at the same time . Hopefully I 'll get my hand on one through different mean so we can make it happen within the next few week . If you 're really itch to get a sous-vide cooker right this second , neither the Anova nor the Sansaire will do you wrong . But wait a few week and we 'll have some even well advice for you . EDITOR 'S NOTE : Check out our update comparison of the Nomiku , Sansaire , and Anova here ! About the author : J. Kenji Lopez-Alt be the Chief Creative Officer of Serious Eats where he like to explore the science of home cook in his weekly column The Food Lab . You can follow him at @ thefoodlab on Twitter , or at The Food Lab on Facebook . x Print : Include photo Hide photo Filed Under : anova equipment sansaire sous vide sous vide 101 sous vide equipment About the Author J. Kenji Lpez-Alt Managing Culinary Director Twitter Facebook Email J. Kenji Lpez-Alt be the Managing Culinary Director of Serious Eats , and author of the James Beard Award-nominated column The Food Lab , where he unravel the science of home cook . A restaurant-trained chef and former Editor at Cook 's Illustrated magazine , he be the author of upcoming The Food Lab : Better Home Cooking Through Science , to be release by W. W. Norton . Serious Eats Newsletters Keep up with our late recipe , tip , technique and where to eat ! Weekly Newsletter Dedicated Newsletter Recipes Daily Newsletter More `` sansaire '' on Serious Eats : We Test the Anova , Sansaire , and Nomiku Sous-Vide Circulators The New $ 199 Sansaire Sous-Vide Circulator be the Solution We 've Been Waiting For Comments Thanks for comment ! Your comment have be accept and will appear in a moment . Comments can take up to a minute to appear - please be patient ! Previewing your comment : HTML Hints Some HTML be OK : < a href= '' URL '' > link < /a > , < strong > strong < /strong > , < em > em < /em > Comment Guidelines Post whatever you want , just keep it seriously about eats , seriously . We reserve the right to delete off-topic or inflammatory comment . Learn more at our Comment Policy page . If you see something not so nice , please , report an inappropriate comment . More Like This Serious Eats Newsletters The tasty bite from across Serious Eats deliver to your inbox Subscribe Follow Serious Eats on Twitter Serious Eats on Facebook Serious Eats on Foursquare Serious Eats on Pinterest RSS Feeds More Masthead Contact About Advertise FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy 2006-2014 