DANIEL HANNAN : Banning vacuum cleaner be n't about save the planet - it 's about Brussels grab even more power | Daily Mail Online Home U.K . U.S . News Sport TV & Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Video Coffee Break Travel Fashion Finder My Profile Logout Login DailyMail show ad DANIEL HANNAN : Banning vacuum cleaner be n't about save the planet - it 's about Brussels grab even more power By Daniel Hannan , Conservative Mep for South East England Published : 09:49 EST , 2 September 2014 | Updated : 16:41 EST , 2 September 2014 318 View comment Customers have be throng High Street store , like Boxing Day crowd , snap up the last legal appliance that use more than 1,600 watt Extremist party be on the rise across Europe . The disaster of the French economy threaten to re-ignite the euro crisis . Russia be invade Ukraine . And what be the EU doing ? Banning high-power vacuum cleaner . Customers have be throng High Street store , like Boxing Day crowd , snap up the last legal appliance that use more than 1,600 watt the maximum power-limit decree by Eurocrats and national politician ( include our own ) . But it doesnt stop there . Brussels be methodically work it way through our home , proscribe any household machine that be deem to use too much electricity . Televisions , dishwasher , tumble-dryer , toaster : all must now conform to the new low-power rule . School sixth-former use to debate whether the State have any place in the bedroom . Well , never mind the bedroom : I want the Government out of my bloody kitchen . The last time we saw similar panic-buying be when the EU ban proper lightbulb in 2009 . A kind of dual stockpiling follow : retailer amass the soon-to-be-outlawed incandescent bulb , and consumer do the same . Only now , five year on , have we plough through both set of reserve . As a result , our room be light by the strange light that come from the low-quality halogen or LED version . Of course , the dimming of the light may be useful when it come to hide the muck that vacuum cleaner be mean to remove . Various consumer organisation , include Which ? , recommend the high-suction cleaner a the best way of extract dirt rather than push it around . I cant claim to be any sort of authority on hoovering . There be , in fairness , argument on both side . Plenty of people include , for what it worth , my wife , whom I treat a the lead authority think that the ban be disproportionate and harmful . And , give the panic-buying of vacuum cleaner ( there a phrase I never expect to write ) most consumer evidently agree with Mrs H . On the other hand , Sir James Dyson who make the thing and , we can fairly assume , know a thing or two about them argue that there be no need for a properly design machine to take such a high wattage . RELATED ARTICLES Previous 1 Next Power surge ! Fourfold rise in sale of super vacuum : Some ... Selling out ! Super vac hoover up by shopper a they ... The great vacuum cleaner stampede : Panic buying hit shop ... Now EU target hairdryers and lawn mower : Brussels set to ... Share this article Share Still , it only fair to point out that , since Sir Jamess appliance meet all the specification anyway , he might be expect to say that . The ban , after all , will disadvantage his competitor , and so suit him . Whether Dyson lobby for the ban , Ive no idea . But it something Ive seen again and again in Brussels . A regulation that be bring in for supposedly altruistic reason such a improving consumer safety or reduce greenhouse gas be actually the result of intense lobby by special interest . When I first become an MEP , I innocently think that business would be oppose to regulation . How wrong I be . In fact , large corporation love EU rule . They know that they can easily meet the compliance cost , but that their small rival will be put out of business . And be we really suppose to believe that ban certain vacuum cleaner will save the planet ? It be often argue that the EUs 30 per cent carbon reduction target be symbolic rather than practical : the entire gain be offset several time over by the output of industrialise country such a India , China , Brazil and Indonesia . If all household electrical appliance in the EU be ban altogether , global carbon emission would be reduce by around 1 per cent There be currently 1,200 coal-fuelled power-stations in the pipeline in develop nation . Its hard to see how the EU can have any significant impact on overall greenhouse gas production when it account for just 12 per cent of total emission . But the gadget in question account for just 12 per cent of our total household energy use ( which be itself only one part of our total carbon footprint ) . If all household electrical appliance in the EU be ban altogether , global carbon emission would be reduce by around 1 per cent . No , this isnt about save the planet . Its about advantage certain producer and , of course , extend the power of Brussels . Every time the EU intervene like this , it create an allied lobby group : a cartel of producer who now have a vest interest in keeping the new regulation and thus , by implication , backing the Eurocrats who decree them . Its why large corporation tend to be so much more pro-Brussels than small and medium firm . When I first become an MEP , I innocently think that business would be oppose to regulation . How wrong I be The irony of the whole thing be that , 40 year ago , we think we have join a common market . In reality , we have join a common regulatory regime , which be more interested in restricting than in extending consumer choice the opposite of a common market . Next on the EUs hit-list be high-energy hairdryers . Again , certain manufacturer , which happen already to meet regulation , will piously claim that we all have to do our bit for the environment . Undemocratic But I find it hard to fault the logic of Mark Coray , from the National Hairdressers Federation , who say : If youre reduce the power it taking longer so the client be unhappy , but if youre reduce the power youre hold the dryer for long so theyre use the same amount of energy anyway . Quite . Were often tell that the EU be not an issue for most people , that voter place it ninth or tenth on their list of concern , well behind education , the economy and immigration . But it all come down to how we phrase the question . If by the EU , we mean what happens in Brussels , then we shouldnt be surprise that people arent especially exercise about it . Yes , they may say , it corrupt , it expensive , it undemocratic , but it doesnt have the same impact on my life that , say , the state of the local school have . The trouble be that , a this ban show , the EU doesnt confine itself to Brussels . It affect almost everything we do . Brussels be methodically work it way through our home , proscribe any household machine that be deem to use too much electricity The rigmarole you have to go through to open a bank account , have to bring along all your old utility bill ? Thats the EUs Money Laundering Directive . The fiddling around to find the right stamp for different size of envelope ? The Postal Services Directive . The end of weekly bin collection ? The Landfill Directive . My point be not that the EU be always wrong . Its that it crazy to decide these thing at a continental level . I be require by law , for example , to ferry my child around in car-seats until they reach the age of 12 . I have be look forward to discard the wretched yogurt-encrusted blob much early ( the car-seats , I mean , not the child ) . You might think I have a point , or you might find me an irresponsible father . Either way , where be the cross-border dimension ? How do we reach the stage where such a rule be impose uniformly on 500 million people ? Cant we determine such matter through our own democratic procedure ? This isnt really about vacuum cleaner . It isnt about carbon emission . It isnt even about the lobbying power of large corporation in Brussels . Its about freedom . If someone want to sell you something and you want to buy it , the authority should have a very good reason to come between you . It may be a small matter a trivial matter , really , compare to some of the abomination the EU be responsible for but every such erosion reduces u a a people . Share or comment on this article MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS Previous 1 2 3 Next ISIS video emerges of spy drive to his crucifixion ... Watch a koala pose for photo a it stroll down a main ... GRAPHIC CONTENT : Grandmother bitten on face by pitbull Man straps mentos to himself and jump into bath full of ... Full of pride ! Lion manages to open family 's car door Snake vs spider ! Redback traps SNAKE in it web ( related ) Iraqi troop fight ISIS extremist outside city of Tikrit Geordie Shore 's Charlotte Crosby show off her bod on her ... Scottish backpacker meet mystery man after public appeal See the jungle on Death Island where Bali Nine will be ... Octopus attempt dare escape from his aquarium tank Mark Zuckerberg reveals his hiring secret at Facebook Q & A D+ . Well present work girl . Next time , a little more ... Woman with crippling headache stab herself in the skull ... Why be deadly REDBACKS hiding in our grape ? Shoppers find ... Mark Zuckerberg 's secret to acing a job interview : Facebook ... EXCLUSIVE : Mother reunite with daughter nearly 18 year ... 'The little girl either fell asleep or just slip down ... Lynch mob justice Indian-style : Gang break into prison and ... 'They do n't let me see my grandson George ' : Prince Charles ' ... Is this ISIS ' sickest execution video yet ? Now terrorists ... Hurled to his death in front of a baying mob : ISIS ... Stepbrother of 16-year-old Becky Watts be charge with her ... Former prime minister Julia Gillard post throwback ... MOST READ NEWS Previous Next Comments ( 317 ) Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rat Worst rat View all The comment below have not be moderate . View all The view express in the content above be those of our user and do not necessarily reflect the view of MailOnline . We be no longer accept comment on this article . Who be this week 's top commenter ? Find out now Bing Site Web Enter search term : Search Like DailyMail Follow MailOnline Follow DailyMail +1 DailyMail DO N'T MISS EXCLUSIVE : Candid camera : The photograph of 'Lovely Linda ' McCartney capture the Beatles , Mick Jagger and Steve McQueen in stunning portfolio of her work Is she try to distract u from her new hair ? Kim Kardashian nip out to Lanvin show in completely see-through mesh dress Just unveil her new platinum blonde lock Woman Behaving Badly ! Dressed-down Leslie Ash jokingly brandish her walking stick during rare out in London Contracted strain of the MSSA superbug in 2004 'Woke up fake it ! ' Katie Price display the result of her new spray tan ... after GROPING Louise Hazel on new game show Revealing too much ? Harrison Ford rush to hospital in critical condition after crash his vintage plane into golf course 72-year-old actor take to UCLA trauma centre Kelly Brook put on a bootylicious display in skintight sportswear a she continue her gruelling weight-loss mission by heading out on a jog From Dakota Johnson and Melanie Griffith to Georgia May Jagger and Jerry Hall , the seriously stylish mother-daughter pair who be more like sartorial sister SPONSORED The big reveal ! Kim Kardashian unveil an edgy new look a she step out in Paris sporting dramatic slicked-back platinum blonde lock Dead Ringer ! Newly blonde Kim Kardashian bear an uncanny resemblance to Legolas ... a the internet go wild with hilarious meme Anything you can do ! Jared Leto prove Kim Kardashian be n't the only star with blonde ambition a he unveil new platinum 'do at Balmain PFW show Imogen Thomas show off her incredible figure in white string bikini a she soak up the Miami sun with hunky boyfriend Adam Currently in Miami Britney Spears squeak a she dance in her latex catsuit in music-free rendition of Oops ! I Did It Again A very convince parody of the popstrel 'I feel well than I do at 20 ! ' : Patsy Kensit strip down to skimpy black bikini a she celebrate 47th birthday in 'paradise' Looking good Pats ! Fashionable a-flare ! Nancy Dell'Olio turn head in a backless lace jumpsuit a she cosies up to blonde pal at raucous bash Known for turn head Racy at 45 ! Jennifer Lopez show off her cleavage and tummy in black bra cover only by a netted crop top Singer , actress , perfume maker - a great year Mayhem on street of Paris : Kendall Jenner almost trample a Kimye cause street block during Fashion Week 19-year-old be mob Flying solo ... David Walliams put on a brave face a he hop off helicopter after split from model wife Lara Stone Trial separation Mommy 's little dancer ! Kourtney Kardashian have her hand full a she carry daughter Penelope to class ( but there 's still no sign of Reign ) 'My first day at school ! ' Heidi Klum share TBT snap of her heading to class while teaching youngster to 'fulfill their dreams' Wise word Back in her skinny jean ! New mom Mila Kunis display her enviably tone figure in a stylish ensemble just month after give birth Power of breastfeed Those shoe be ( not ) make for walking ! A VERY slender Lindsay Lohan rock a pair of seriously high heel in London Wore Giorgio Armani coat 'Hope my story can help others ' : Kyle Richards share selfie while reveal she have suffer an eye condition for five year Star of Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills Workout buddy ! Reese Witherspoon and Naomi Watts look fabulously fit a they 're spot leave the same gym in LA Sweating it out together Newlywed Ashley Tisdale go for glam in black a she bring dapper husband along to Ted Baker event in London Married six month Neil Patrick Harris look glum on date night with husband David Burtka after reveal he have no plan to host Oscars again Cheer up TBT ! Gwyneth Paltrow post touch throwback photo of herself with late father a she call on all dad to support their daughter Want to sleep in John Mayer 's bedroom ? The singer 's humble former home in Atlanta go on sale at the bargain price of $ 469K It 's in Peachtree Hills Billie Faiers rock a casual look in puffy jacket a she enjoy trip to the spa with seven-month-old baby Nelly Spotted out with mum in Essex Paris can you handle it ? Kelly Rowland take the plunge in black leather jumpsuit at Barbara Bui 's Fashion Week show Gave birth to first child four month ago Curvy Kate Upton show off her pale lean leg in short black dress while out to lunch in Beverly Hills Kate Upton just get back from a whirlwind trip Newly engage Lady Gaga flash her legs in racy skirt slash to her hip a she step out in Paris wearing a long blonde wig Racy look Twelve-year-old Jewish boy parody hit music video from Robin Thicke , Pharrell Williams and Frozen to create a VERY un-Orthodox Bar Mitzvah invitation Mickey 's man-bag strike again ! Mr Rourke step out with his favourite Louis Vuitton satchel a he do lunch in Beverly Hills Oh Mickey , you 're so fine 'I restrain her from hurt herself ' : Danniella Westbrook 's ex fianc Tom Richards deny assault claim after actress share picture of bruise on Twitter She 's a Rebel Heart ! Veteran entertainment reporter Richard Wilkins be keep on his toe by Queen of Pop Madonna in game of linguistic tennis while promote new album Not a big tipper ? Gwen Stefani flash a whole $ 10 a she approach a valet stand outside pricey Beverly Hills restaurant The Palm Looked a million buck EXCLUSIVE : Dr. Phil stage dramatic INTERVENTION with Bobbi Kristina 's out-of-control boyfriend Nick Gordon Flew to Atlanta PICTURED : Cara Delevingne with rumoured girlfriend St. Vincent back in January a it 's claim pair have be secretly date for month 'Always take pic to send to Bae ' : Benji Madden send wife Cameron Diaz a cute Instagram snap of him cuddle up with a puppy while in Australia A platinum blonde Joker ? Jared Leto debut new hair colour for Suicide Squad which be nothing like what Heath Ledger and Jack Nicholson do Myleene Klass dress her two daughter , Hero and Ava , a HERSELF for World Book Day ( well , she do write a celebrity pregnancy diary ! ) Rematch ! Adam Sandler and Bob Barker fight it out in a hospital ward a they recreate their Happy Gilmore punch-up in funny skit for autism benefit Kendall Jenner lead supermodel charge a Karlie Kloss , Alessandra Ambrosio and Jourdan Dunn join others for Balmain 's star-studded PFW show 'I find myself google Australian slang ' : Hugh Jackman admit he have have trouble keeping up with phrase from home country during GMA appearance Calum Best pose shirtless in a string of new selfies a he continue to soak up the Abu Dhabi sun with girlfriend Ianthe Rose One hot couple Giuliana Rancic seen for first time after apologize for'racist ' comment about Zendaya 's dreadlock House hunting in Beverly Hills with husband Downton get ANOTHER royal visit : Duchess of Cambridge to visit the set of popular drama ( but will she get the Dowager 's seal of approval ? ) Kim Kardashian and Kanye West continue their romantic reunion in Paris a they pucker up for a passionate smooch at the Louis Vuitton Foundation Is this her WORST look yet ? As Kim unveils her new platinum 'do we chart her hair-volution from brunette wave to black bob ... and the time she have bang Kris Jenner be the ultimate third-wheel a Kim Kardashian put on an affectionate FROW display with Kanye West at Balmain Nori miss out ... Duncan Bannatyne ca n't stop smile a he enjoy romantic dinner date with former Miss Great Britain Michelle Evans ... before leaving restaurant hand-in-hand Has Kim Kardashian lose her identity ? Top hairdresser react to star 's new blonde look ... say extreme colour change mean 'something dramatic be go on' Geordie Shore star Holly Hagan post a busty bikini selfie a she continue to flaunt her slim figure online Slimline Geordies be selfie-obsessed That 's not her boyfriend ! Ashley Greene leave Paul Khoury at home to take her hunky hairstylist for a hike in the Hollywood Hills RHOBH star Brandi Glanville take a break from the drama a she parade her fabulous figure in a fishnet bikini at the beach Will she soon be fire ? What happen to your leg ? Sex And The City star Chris Noth , 60 , see limp around NYC with a cane The 60-year-old limp around the cold street Tum-thing special : Pregnant Helen Flanagan cradle her blossom bump in two-tone jacket a she run errand in Birmingham 'Are you go to get your pecs insure ? ' A giggly Amanda Holden turn on the charm a she get flirty with Poldark 's Aidan Turner on This Morning 'I 'm awesome ! It do n't bother me ' : Kelly Clarkson responds to Katie Hopkins ' fat jibe ... after admitting she do n't know who critic be Drake hunting phony promoter who scammed fan into buying ticket for show that do n't exist Rapper be n't perform at these show PICTURE EXCLUSIVE : Michelle Keegan take beachfront snap a fun-loving receptionist Tracy in gritty new drama Ordinary Lies First post-Corrie role EXCLUSIVE : 'I do n't diet and I do n't weigh myself ' : Shahs Of Sunset 's Asifa Mirza reveals she stay 105lbs the hard way , by working out Supermodel Kendall Jenner look runway ready in peach thigh-high split skirt and bold silver crop top a she leave Paris hotel Futuristic look From strut down the catwalk in Kanye 's fashion show to starring in Carine Roitfeld 's Fashion Book : Is Kylie Jenner make a bid for Kendall 's career ? David Walliams reveals he be TURNED DOWN by Cheryl a he join her on Graham Norton show ... follow 'split from model wife' What could have be What be Queen Latifah think ? Bobby Brown appear on her TV show - tap week ago before Bobbi Kristina 's drowning - talk up his BBQ sauc and daughter 's career Imogen Thomas continue to parade her incredible bikini body in skimpy turquoise two-piece a she kick back under the Miami sun with daughter Ariana 'We ai n't worry ' : Christina Milian wow in floral pencil dress a she party with newly single Karrueche Tran Shows some major cleavage in tight number 'I be a little heartbroken ' : Clueless star Jeremy Sisto break his silence on lose Titanic role to Leonardo DiCaprio Leo become a superstar Kim Richards 'fabricated story about Lisa Rinna 's husband Harry Hamlin harboring a secret ' during dramatic glass mash row on RHOBH Content North West get a cuddle from glamorous granny Kris Jenner a they head out for dinner in Paris Carried out of a hotel by her nan Karrueche Tran hold hand with a handsome publicist a she exit nightclub after dump Chris Brown over revelation he 'fathered a child' Tan-tastic Kym Marsh match her make-up to her bright orange legging a she hit the gym for a workout There 's no missing the Corrie star in THAT ... Chrissy Teigen brave snowstorm in nothing but a crop top and pencil skirt a she head to New York TV show Swimsuit model seem unfazed by the weather Paris Hilton step out for first time since brother Conrad plead guilty to assault after 10-hour airplane ride from hell where he menace passenger Hint of a tint ! Carefree Paris Jackson debut new lighter hair colour a she step out in casual legging for solo shop spree Rarely see these day The love boat ? Khloe Kardashian and on-off boyfriend French Montana take to the high sea on Key West , Florida holiday Rocky romance Alexa Chung brighten up a classic black dress with sheer yellow sweater a she celebrate beauty launch with Pixie Geldof Out in London Liam Gallagher enjoy carefree afternoon with girlfriend Debbie Gwyther ... after be fin $ 5,000 for missing another child support hearing Feeling plump : Alex Gerrard reveals full lip a she step out for a gym session in stylish fitness gear She 's get ready to move to Los Angeles Giving new meaning to Flashdance ! Grant Gustin and Tom Cavanagh waltz with each other in costume while on a footbridge film for The Flash Susanna Reid add some glamour to the petrol station a she wear figure-hugging skinny jean and heel to fill up her car Good Morning to you ... FIRST LOOK ! Cara Delevingne transform from model to movie star in new Face Of An Angel trailer with Kate Beckinsale Model to actress No post-dinner bloat here ! Cara Santana show off her taut ab in a form-fitting crop top a she din with beau Jesse Metcalfe Showed off gym result Case close ! Police no longer investigate theft of Lupita Nyong'o 's ' $ 150K Oscar gown ' after it be 'returned by thief' Recovered last week As the torture comic 's marriage break up after five year , be his supermodel wife 's racy picture too much for Camp David Walliams ? S Club 7 's Hannah Spearritt shed her squeaky clean image a she pose provocatively in a semi-sheer crop top Set for West End Blonde ambition ! Kim Kardashian offer a glimpse of her newly-dyed platinum lock a she reunite with Kanye West in Paris Reason behind the hat ! Going for gold : Ashley Roberts get hand-painted from head-to-toe and don dazzle bronze dress in aid of Red Nose Day Swapped red for gold Daddy 's little princess ! Chris Brown 's 'daughter with model and nurse student Nia Amey have be name ROYALTY' That 's a pretty amaze name to live up to ... 'There 's a spark between them ' : Newly single Georgia May Foote enjoy 'close friendship ' with Michelle Keegan 's hunky male model ex Salut ! Lily Collins rock pattern dress and skinny jean under a stylish black coat a she touch down for Paris Fashion Week Everyone 's in France She Knowles how to make an arrival ! Solange turn head in a red faux fur coat a she attend Paris Fashion Week show Got an individual style Dakota Johnson channel her inner rock star a she arrive in Paris wearing funky retro shade and a wide-brimmed hat for Fashion Week 'Newly single ' David Walliams post defiant thumbs-up tweet inside helicopter ... 'amid claim he want model wife Lara back' Putting on a brave face She nose about style : Madonna 's daughter Lourdes Leon show off septum pierce while shop in New York City She 's an edgy teen 'Lets fight about it ' : Kristin Cavallari bite back after teammate of NFL player husband Jay Cutler say Olivia Munn be hot Not happy Millie Mackintosh say she work out up to SIX time a week because it 's like 'therapy for the brain ' a she show off athletic body in photoshoot Imogen Thomas flaunt her shapely bikini body in tiny two-piece a she dot on daughter Ariana during sunny Miami holiday She 's a wild one 'We be all little poser ! ' Katie Price give an intimate look into her family life a she share sweet picture of her child She 's get quite the brood So what IS Martin Sheen do with Holly Branson and Princess Beatrice ? Hollywood star hobnobs with the royal at glitzy gala At the Bulgari Hotel 'I be struggle ' : Kate Bosworth reveals how therapy and her celeb friend help her through her rocky twenty a she pose for stun new shoot It 's nearly time ! Pregnant Isla Fisher cover her grow bump in black a she step out with husband Sacha Baron Cohen Expanding their brood A tan and tone Michelle Keegan prove she 's the ultimate beach babe a she unveil her summer Lipsy collection in full Caribbean beach shoot Adis amigo ! The Queen and Prince Philip bid farewell to Mexico 's Enrique Pea Nieto and his VERY glamorous First Lady At Buckingham Palace Bethenny Frankel wow in red jumpsuit a she attempt to steal the spotlight away from the lady in sexy new RHONYC promo She 's back ! Pregnant Game of Thrones actress Lena Headey display her baby bump in a stylish maternity jumpsuit a she hit the shop Exciting year for actress Bill Cosby accuser Jane Doe No . 2 reveals her identity 30 year after 'he made her perform a sexual act' Jennifer K. 'Kaya ' Thompson , 44 Holly Branson display her stunning post-baby body in skinny jean at We Day UK event ... three month after give birth to twin Etta and Artie TV legend June Whitfield to guest star in EastEnders in a top secret role that will 'change Kat Moon 's life' Will star in May episode of BBC One soap Heavily pregnant Mila Jovovich display her bulge bump on a hike with husband Paul W.S . Anderson ... just weeks away from her due date Emma Watson go make-up free in home video announce she 'll host a live HeForShe event and say it 's be an 'absolutely amazing journey' 'It 's so hard to get her to sit down ! ' Model Cara Delevingne 's make-up artist Lloyd Simmonds reveals and add he never hide her tattoo Cara 's beauty secret Iggy Azalea fan speculate songstress delete Instagram account after her page abruptly go down Fans be paranoid she be quit showbiz Reese Witherspoon stick to her award season workout regime a she hit the gym for her daily session in tight legging Keeping in shape 'We still talk from time to time ' : Nick Jonas will always love ex Delta Goodrem but be 'thrilled ' that chapter of his life be now over a he jet into her native Australia 'You have to be good than your male colleague ' : Feminist Salma Hayek discuss the 'crazy ' pressure society put woman under EXCLUSIVE : How star of original Poldark series escape to idyllic life in France ... only for his nemesis Captain McNeil to move in nearby and 'apprehend ' him in costume Well , it be the City of Love ! Robert Pattinson and girlfriend FKA twig enjoy night out in Paris ... after report he have give her a 'promise ring' Emma Watson tweet her joy at Dan Stevens be cast a her Disney prince in live-action Beauty And The Beast ... a Luke Evans grab Gaston role Rosie Huntington-Whiteley put on a leggy display in figure-hugging black leather trouser for dinner in Los Angeles Looking hot to trot 'I do not want to win that award ' : Iggy Azalea reveals she be RELIEVED to be beat out by Eminem for rap Grammy ... even after his controversial lyric about her Sofia Richie cut a stylish figure in white ensemble a she follow in sister Nicole 's fashionable footstep at Paris Fashion Week No long platinum Sam Worthington 's Aussie model 'wife ' Lara Bingle look the epitome of motherhood with one protective hand over her bump a rumour swirl she 's expect a boy Next story Harrison Ford rush to hospital in critical condition after crash his vintage plane into golf course 30 comment SHARE PICTURE Copy link to paste in your message Find out more ... Find out more ... Back to top Home U.K . U.S . News Sport TV & Showbiz Femail Health Science Money Video Coffee Break Travel Fashion Finder Sitemap Archive Video Archive Mobile Apps RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This be Network Evening Standard This be Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail , The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact u Advertise with u Terms Privacy policy & cooky ninemsn News Sports Finance Lifestyle Entertainment Video Travel More Sites About u Careers at ninemsn Advertise with u Contact u Terms of use Privacy 1997-2014 ninemsn Pty Ltd - All 