16 way to cut your hydro bill | Toronto Star Thursday , March 5 , 2015 6:59 PM EST the star.com Personal Finance Search the archive Home News GTA Queen 's Park Canada World Investigations Crime Your Toronto City Nights Schools The Fixer Reviews Traffic Opinion Editorials Commentary Readers ' Letters Public Editor Corrections Editorial Cartoon Sports Hockey Baseball Basketball Football Soccer Amateur Tennis Golf Figure Skating Curling Lacrosse Business Economy Personal Finance Tech News Real Estate Entertainment Television Movies Stage Music Books Visual Arts Life Technology Food & Wine Travel Fashion & Style Homes Health & Wellness Parent Autos Photos Diversions Classifieds Obituaries Inside the Star Video Neurosurgeon who have never hold office become right-wing rise star in U.S . Jared Letos new do be make me pull my hair out : Menon Progressive Conservative reboot a kick in the teeth to many Tories : Cohn Business / Personal Finance / Spending & Saving 16 way to cut your hydro bill The price of hydro steadily on the rise a the government encourage off-peak use , here be several small and easy change you can make to keep your bill a low a possible . Share on Facebook Tweet A A Comments ? Report an Error Share via Email Print ROBERT MAXWELL Smart electrical meter eliminate the need to read them in person . By : Jennifer Stewart Published on Mon Apr 25 2011 When Claudette Trepanier make a few small change in her daily routine to take advantage of off-peak hydro hour , she be able to shave $ 1 , 200 a year from her hydro bill . To encourage people like Trepanier , who life in Ottawa , to use off-peak hour , when electricity be in low demand and cheap , the Ontario Government introduce Smart Meters which track how much electricity household use and at what time . This weekend ( May 1 ) the government roll back the start of off-peak use to 7p.m . at night . until 7.a.m . so more people can take advantage of the saving . Weekends be also consider off-peak hour . The change that Trepanier make to cut down her bill werent difficult and be easy to keep up . She wait until the weekend to do laundry , didnt run her dishwasher until it be full and turn off the light when she leave a room . It wasnt a huge lifestyle change . I just have to be conscious of when I be do certain thing , say Trepanier . With the price of hydro steadily on the rise , there be several small and easy change you can make to keep your bill a low a possible . They include : Electronics A lot of your hydro bill could be eat up by phantom power , which be the electricity draw even when an electronic device or appliance be not in use but still plug in . This can account for up to 15 per cent of a household electricity use , or a much a $ 18.75 on the average household hydro bill . Using a programmable power bar to charge your electronics during off-peak hour can cut that cost in half . Change your light Compact Fluorescent Bulbs ( CFLs ) use up to 75 per cent less energy than standard bulb . According to Toronto Hydro , the average home have 30 light fixture that consume close to $ 200 worth of electricity every year . By replacing five bulb with ENERGY STAR qualify CFL bulb in area that require more than three hour of light a day save approximately $ 30 a year . Use a programmable thermostat When Matthew Mackenzies parent become snow bird a few year ago , he look into way to cut their home energy use while they be away . He program their thermostat to stay at 18C during the winter month compare to the 22C they usually leave their home . This save them around $ 15 on their electricity bill each month with minimal effort . Properly set , a programmable thermostat can reduce heating and cool cost by up to 10 per cent . Dont be afraid to use ceiling fan Fans be a great use of energy and can help keep your bill down . If you run them at the same time a the air conditioner , you can raise the temperature set by 2C , reduce your energy use by at least 10 per cent , accord to the Ontario Energy Board . Dishwashers Run your dishwasher during off-peak hour and only when it be full . Use the air-dry setting or leave the door open to naturally dry the dish . Running your dishwasher during off-peak hour can save you about half the electricity charge than run it during peak hour . Barbeques According to Toronto Hydro , the cost of prepare a meal on an electric stove be cheap than use a propane-run barbeque , especially during off peak period . However , a natural gas fired-stove or barbeque be approximately 20 to 30 per cent cheaper in price than an electric stove . Dryers Just like the dishwasher , you can cut your energy cost almost in half by run your dryer during off-peak hour . Also remember to keep your lint trap clean . Moisture can more easily pass through a clean lint trap , make your dryer more efficient . Clothes Lines Forego the cost of dry your clothes all together ! Take advantage of summer weather and put your clothes on an outdoor clothe line to dry . If you dont have enough room outside , you can air dry your clothes inside use a drying rack . Washers The most important thing to do to save money be run your washer use cold water , which cut back electricity 85 to 90 per cent . Wait to do a full load of laundry , and do it only during off peak hour or weekend . When buy a new model , look for an ENERGY STAR qualify front-load model to reduce water use by almost 45 per cent and energy use by about 65 per cent . Refrigerators Your refrigerator can be one of the big electricity user in the home . If youre in the market for a new fridge , look for the ENERGY STAR symbol , which mean it be at least 15 per cent more energy-efficient than the minimum federal standard and us half a much electricity a a fridge thats 10 year old . If you have an old fridge , and arent sure what to do with it , you can look into the Great Refrigerator Round Up offer by the Ontario Power Authority . Visit www.everykilowattcounts.com to learn more about this program . Freezers Keep your freezer at -18C . Setting your freezer colder than that will use more electricity . Remember that a full freezer operate more efficiently than a near-empty one . It be also important to keep 5 cm of space around your freezer so heat can circulate away from the compressor and condense coil . Showers vs. bath Having a shower in the morning instead of a bath can drastically cut back your hydro bill . A five minute shower at 7 a.m. cost 20 cent , compare to a bath at the same time , which be more than double the cost at 50 cent . Microwave vs. electric stove Microwaves use up to 50 per cent less electricity than an electric stove . If you need to reheat or cook something on the fly , use your microwave . Window treatment Window treatment can reduce heat loss in the winter and keep out the heat of the summer . During the winter month it help to retain heat inside the home . During the summer month it reflect heat back to the sun . The most important window in your home for energy conservation be the south , east and west side as they get the most sunlight . If you dont want to treat your window , blind or window covering will also do the trick . Fall and winter Make sure that the hydro you pay doesnt literally go out the door by weather-proofing your home . In the fall or early winter , weather-strip your home around door , fireplace damper , attic hatch and air conditioner . By reducing draft , you could save up to 30 per cent a year on heating cost . Programs Like many provincial power authority , Hydro One , in partnership with the Ontario Power Authority , offer a range of program , incentive and tool to save on electricity at home . To view some of the program and way you can save , visit : http : //www.hydroone.com/MyHome/SaveEnergy/Pages/Programs.aspx For Toronto Hydro user , you can see how much hydro youre use during peak and off peak hour , and even predict how much you would save if you use even more off peak hour at www.torontohydro.com Jennifer Stewart be an Ottawa-based writer . Reach her at stewartjennifer82 @ yahoo.ca More on thestar.com Reebok resurrecting he 'Pump ' sneaker 26 year later Crafts website Etsy file for IPO , with $ 100 million goal We value respectful and thoughtful discussion . Readers be encourage to flag comment that fail to meet the standard outline in our Community Code of Conduct . For further information , include our legal guideline , please see our full website Terms and Conditions . Commenting be now close . There be -- comment . Show comment . Top News NEW Amanda Lang review conclude she meet journalistic standard , CBC say comment Divers take on risk to uncover secret of Franklin ship Erebus White powder sent to federal Quebec cabinet minister harmless , police say comment Neo-Nazi bunker for sale represents dark era in Toronto history : Micallef NEW Excess sugar lurk in kid ' meal at restaurant chain , U of T researcher say comment NEW Suspect in alleged Via terror plot in it for the money , lawyer say Owner of spa treat aboriginal girl order to cease practising Updated Scientists critical of U of T homeopathy study into ADHD treatment comment commercial promo A classmate recovery inspire youth into action Toronto.com : Best Mac and Cheese in Toronto Now 's the time to start pruning fruit tree and buy seed Daytona golf : Snowbirds have be tee it up for more than Second-hand : 2011-14 Hyundai Sonata Special Coverage Reebok resurrecting he 'Pump ' sneaker 26 year later Twenty-six year after Reebok first bring the Pump to life , the sportswear company be resurrect the iconic sneaker . The new Pump be not just for basketball player anymore , either . Crafts website Etsy file for IPO , with $ 100 million goal Canadian Natural considers royalty spin off Size matter in global shipping business Careers Workopolis Most Popular Average price for Toronto detach house pass $ 1M in February comment Smartphone app offer a way to pay for parking , even far away comment Video Plane skid off runway at LaGuardia in snowstorm comment Quadriplegic mom raise twin girl face extra challenge comment Social assistance glitch could lead to Toronto man 's eviction comment On Twitter Back to Mobile thestar.com News Your Toronto Opinion Sports Business Entertainment Life Diversions Classifieds Site Map Wheels.ca Insurance Hotline New in Homes Star Store Blogs Contests Lottery Results Obituaries Corrections Public Editor Behavioural Targeting Today 's News Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd . About Atkinson Principles Statement of Principles Get Home Delivery My Subscription Contact Us Contact Webmaster FAQ News Releases Star Internships Careers @ the Star Advertise with u Advertising Terms Mediakit Online Advertising Print Advertising Special Features Initiatives Santa Claus Fund Fresh Air Fund Speakers Bureau Classroom Connection Pages of the Past Report on Community Giving Connect with Us RSS feed Twitter Updates News Alerts Newsletters Mobile Devices Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996-2015 Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy 