Shark Navigator Vacuum Reviews - ConsumerAffairs.com Menu Consumer Affairs contain Consumer News Consumer Resources Write a review Search Log in Shark Navigator Vacuum Home > Homeowners > Vacuums Are you this business ? Learn about ConsumerAffairs for Brands ! Overall Satisfaction Rating 1.54 /5 Based on 65 rating out of 72 review 5 star 3 5 % 4 star 1 2 % 3 star 2 3 % 2 star 16 25 % 1 star 43 66 % show rating distribution Compare Vacuums Research top Vacuums recommendation on ConsumerAffairs Compare Companies Tell u about your experience with Shark Navigator Vacuum : write a review Record a review about your experience with Shark Navigator Vacuum : Login to record a Review Tell u about your experience with Shark Navigator Vacuum : write a review Share this page facebook twitter google+ email link Consumer Complaints & Reviews 72 Consumer Complaints and Reviews 72 Complaints Filter by : see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars Jessica of Knoxville , TN on Feb. 13 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Got a vacuum and the head stop spin . Called and get a new head sent out free of charge . Turns out , the second one stopped working too and after 30 second late , we have a whole new vacuum on the way . Honestly , this be the best customer service I have ever experience . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Linda of De Soto , IL on Feb. 5 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I be amaze every time I use my Shark Navigator by the amount of dust and dirt it pick up from what I think to be a clean carpet . I buy one for myself and talk my father in law into purchase one for their home a well and he be amaze when I clean his house weekly at just how much stuff end up in the canister . I love the way the head swivel to easily get under furniture and the ease of use . Also , love the fact that I can lift off the canister and carry it with the tool to get in hard to reach place . I could do my own info commercial on this product . In fact , I buy a 2nd one that I 'm keep in the box just in case something go wrong with my first one . add your response Helpful ? Yes No jenny of Randleman , NC on Feb. 1 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I love my Shark . It really pick up the dirt deep in the carpet . I know because it take no time to fill up the canister . The Shark begin to give me electrical shock and I really think maybe it have something to do with static in the air but it get worse . I have to be careful where I touch the vacuum when vacuum . Then one day it stop shock me - the same day the roller brush stop work . I have contact the company with no response . I own my vacuum for only 3 month . This be the first expensive vacuum I have own and what a waste of money . I will return to buying less expensive vacuum . Would rather have 3 $ 60.00 vacuum than one good one that be defective . Wish I have keep the receipt . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Lucaya of Clarksville , TN on Jan. 30 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating My husband and I purchase a Shark Navigator Lift-Away Pro , Model Number NV355 approximately nine month ago . Within only a few month , the brush roll begin to rattle and even when completely clean , the vacuum would only work on carpet for a few minute . I call on January 7th to use the warranty to replace or repair the unit . I be notify at the time that my only two option be to either spend an additional $ 100 for a new vacuum , or pay nearly that same amount in shipping and handling for the vacuum to be send to the ONLY repair location in the country , California . My husband and I be both military , and money be extremely tight . I fail to see the value of a warranty that penalize customer after less than a year of own a vacuum that DOES NOT WORK . I voice my concern to the phone operator , Julianne , and request to speak to a manager . Julianne notify me that there be no manager currently work , which I find incredibly difficult to believe . I then request to speak with a District Manager . Julianne again state that not only could she not connect me with that individual , but she do not even have their information . She tell me that I would be contact by a manager within 24-48 hour . I wait over five day before hearing anything , receive a voice mail during a family emergency . After settle our family affair , I call the number back on January 29th , and be tell that the same manager , ( Sarah ) , who attempt to contact me in Mid-January be currently come back from lunch and that I would have to hang up and she would call me back in 5-10 minute . While someone do call back , I be unable to reach the phone . I call back immediately and be notify by another phone representative that they have absolutely no idea who Sarah be , that there be no manager currently work , there be no method for telephone operator to transfer a call to a manager , and that I would have to hang up and wait another 24-48 hour for a manager to get in contact with me . I would like to state that this be the absolute WORST business model I have EVER hear of concerning customer support . The point of a customer like myself call implies that this be the time they be available to talk about the problem they be have , be force to wait for an arbitrary phone call that may or may not even happen implies that Shark do not care about their customer or their integrity . Being tell several time that there be no manager currently work , and even if they be work , the phone representative have no method of get in contact with them alert me to the possibility that Shark may not be operate within the standard of federal law . Not only be the Shark vacuum the bad vacuum I have ever buy , but it warranty be worthless and call the customer help line be an exercise in futility . DO NOT BUY FROM THIS COMPANY , YOU WILL REGRET IT ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Evelyn of San Diego , CA on Jan. 30 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I have a shark navigator . It be only a couple year old . I find it have a 5 year warranty . Something inside broke ( I could hear it rattle ) ; it 's the 'kickstand ' feature that allow the vacc to 'click into place ' and ( for lack of a good description ) , pop a wheelie so you can wheel it around . The bottom part ( call the power nozzle ) just kind of flopped off the end of the unit . You have to pick the whole thing up to move from room to room . So ... try to first take care of it myself ( rather than , I presume , ship it somewhere and leave me without a vacc for x # of day ) , I bring it to my local vacc repair shop . They could n't fix it but show me the part that have crack , and advise me to contact the manufacturer for repair . So I call ... and ( try to be helpful ) tell them I know what be wrong with it - I have save them some time and bring it somewhere . DEAD SILENCE . `` You what ? ? ? '' `` I bring it to a vacc place '' . `` Well - you just void your warranty . '' WTF ? I say `` be you kid , '' he say NO . Seriously ? ? ? I say `` well let 's pretend this conversation do n't happen and I 'll call back . '' No can do . BOY this 'helpful agent ' ( not ) be be really hard-nosed . Bottom line : they would not honor the warranty ! Merely because I do some advance legwork . They offer to sell me a replacement ( probably refurbish ) , for $ 29.99 . NO THANK YOU . A few month late my niece have the same problem with hers ( buy around the same time ) . I say `` do n't take it anywhere '' so she do n't . She call and report it . After a long conversation the 'helpful agent ' say `` I 'll just send you a whole new unit . '' A new vacuum ? YES ! ( she figure by now there be lot of people complain about this ) . The box arrive . The co. only send a POWER NOZZLE ! She call the company and they refuse to honor the promise make by the agent . They say `` we do n't send new vacuum out for free '' ( but this be to replace their defective unit ! ) . They offer to sell her a new one at a reduce price - $ 70 or so . This be a classic bait and switch . ( do n't they realize there be more to lose , by not honor what the agent promise to do ? If they 'd send a new vacc we would both be sing their praise , I would be write a glowing review ... instead of me write this novel ) . So she be stuck with just the new brush attachment . IN ADDITION TO THIS , this company be NOT reachable by email , you ca n't reply back to the transaction receipt they send , and the 'live chat ' be worthless when the person/robot you be live-chatting with ... keep refer you to their 800 number . I will not be buy another one of their product and neither will my niece . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Sherry of White Hall , AR on Jan. 26 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I order the Shark Rotator Power Lift-away vacuum online directly from Shark on 1/15/15 . I immediately receive an email state my order be on backorder with no estimate for delivery give . Today almost two week late I call phone number in my email , be only able to use the automate system still on backorder with no estimate delivery date . I try several time to speak to a human but my call would somehow always end before I be connect . Meanwhile I continue to see the infomercial on TV several time every day . I call the number to order and the saleslady have no knowledge of the backorder situation , a far a she know the product be available . I tell her I have be unable to speak to anyone when I call the customer service number so she offer to connect me , same problem I be never connect to a human , grrr ! I finally used the live chat link from my email and after a lengthy wait an agent come online . I ask her if I make an order by phone and cancel my online order if I would get it sooner . She say , no it would be on backorder either way . She estimate my order would ship in 4-6 week ! I have not be charge any money a I pay through PayPal and wo n't be charge until it ship , thank goodness . Most website tell you upfront if a product be on backorder . It seem unethical to keep take order that wo n't be fill for that long without tell the customer upfront . Anyone considering order this should be warn you may be wait to get your order for much long than when you order from most company . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Craig of Colorado Springs , CO on Jan. 21 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating CUSTOMER SERVICE ... . First attempt : I be attempt to acquire the mailing address to send in my Shark vacuum for repair . The power head stop work and be inform I need to send in the entire unit . Try and find a box to ship , what fun and 36 dollar shipment . I be assist ( She be Okay ) and be tell I need to call customer service . The phone number I be give by the live chat person at about 1:30 MST ( Amanda ? ? ) connect me to ( 1 800 798-7398 ) a national directory . After several minute with her , I be transfer to C/S . A person name Valerie answer and I explain that I need the address to send in my Shark vacuum for repair . With sub-standard phone connection I be able to get a partial address after several attempt . EURO something @ one something genesis way . When I ask Valerie if she could send me the address via the email address I just give her , she disconnect the call without an answer . After wait for about 30 minute for an email , I again attempt the live chat session to address my issue . I be third in line and after several minute , I be connect with Julie . As I be type in my request , my session be terminate . So far very lousy customer service over all . I access Live Chat again ( about 2:30 MST ) and speak with Jory . I explain I need the address to send in my Shark Vacuum for repair . The person at Customer Service ( Valerie ) be not very helpful at all . I be able to get a partial address ; EURO something at one something Genesis Way , Spring Pine , NC.28777 . Jory be prompt and give me the Address . WOW . For such an awesome product to have such lousy C/S ... I be shock . Please include my comment in your survey . NOT HAPPY ! ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Robert of Sebastian , FL on Jan. 18 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating Bought a Shark Rotator Pro ( NV502Q ) about 6 month ago . The suction elbow release latch that hold the elbow in place vanish and need to be replace with about a 10 cent replacement piece . Went to the Shark online Chat and tell them what I need . I get the same response that another reviewer previously get and that be , for the 10 cent piece , I either need to box up the unit and send it to them for repair and then pay the freight both way - for them to snap on a clip ! Of course , my other choice be to buy a new unit ( REALLY ? ! ) at a discount . This be ** ! I WOULD NEVER RECOMMEND A SHARK UNIT TO ANYONE AS A RESULT OF THIS EASILY AVOIDABLE SITUATION . THIS be what be wrong with the world . Poor judgement , poor diagnosis and solution to the problem . Wonder why thing cost so much ? I do n't ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No faye of Gladstone , OR on Jan. 12 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating I order the vacuum the first of October . They say the first payment and ship and handling would be take out in the first 24 hour and the vacuum would be deliver in 4 to 6 week . Well , I wait and wait for the $ 105.00 to be take out . So by December , when it still be n't take out , I decide I be n't go to be get it , so I use the money for Christmas . December 24th I get a surprise . I be overdraw in my bank like $ 95.00 . They have finally take out the money without any warn . But on the bright side , I get the vacuum a few day late . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jeremiah of Laporte , TX on Jan. 6 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating A small red button on the nv-501 model broke . It hold the hose elbow in place but with out it , the hose just come out make the rather expensive vacuum nonfunctioning . I call customer support . They inform me that the small button be not a replacement price they offer . Now this small button could not cost 1/2 to 1 cent to make . So their solution be offer me a discount on a new unit of 75 dollar off . The vacuum be less then 6 month old . This be ridiculous and now I wish I would have pop the extra money for the dyson . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Richard of Poquoson , VA on Jan. 3 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating After 7 month the motorize floor brush roller on my NV 355 fail to function . I call SHARK Tech Support and after several attempt to get the brush roller to work I be told that I would need a new motorized brush roller and it be NOT cover under warranty . $ 59.99 plus ship and handling for a total of $ 75.00 . 5-year warranty on what ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No James of Detroit , MI on Dec. 24 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I contact Euro ( Shark ) to purchase a vacuum for my daughter for xmas . I tell them I be on a fix income and want the payment deduct from my account on or around the 1st of the month , I be assure this would be the case . After receive the email notification ( 3 ) out of the ( 4 ) month be before the 1st . I contact Euro with my concern . I be told to cancel the order and replace it a this would reset the day so the payment would be deduct a I specify . I tell the rep this be go to be a xmas gift and I have to have it arrive before xmas ; `` no problem , '' I be told . I contact Euro on ( 3 ) occasion and each time I be reassure there would be no problem . I contact them today xmas eve after discover FedEx say it be ship 12/22/14 @ 2:00 pm . I contact Euro . Fed Ex say it a Saturday delivery , now I be go to look stupid arriving without a gift , that 's a fine merry xmas , thanks . Euro say `` the order be not include in the air mail shipment . '' `` And why be it not include , not a priority ? I be promise it be go to be ship . '' Euro say `` unable to cancel your order because it have already ship . You can return it under the 60 day money back trial period . '' Just forget it . I wo n't be order from Shark in the future . That 's what be wrong with business today , the order be place over 3 week ago . Just screw Shark . I will make it my journey to post these result . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Eve of Hilltop , MN on Dec. 23 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating My vacuum 's motor start to go out and I call customer support - no resolution . And then it completely go out so I call customer support again and ask them what can I do about it . They ask me to send the vacuum back and my own expense . Then they offer me to get a discount vacuum cleaner for $ 100 and I just felt a though why would I pay for another vacuum when there 's clearly something wrong with my vacuum cleaner . I think their service suck and it 's a rip off . I pay 200 dollar only to pay another hundred dollar . That 's ridiculous . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Joe of Hartsville , TN on Dec. 22 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I order a Shark Navigator Vacuum after watch the infomercial on television . I order it over the phone and ask for the six monthly installment of $ 49.95 . I be told I would be charge the first monthly payment of 4995 before the vacuum would be ship . I agree and they assure me back it would be ship within nine business day . The vacuum be deliver within the nine business day . When I receive my credit card bill I be charge the full amount of $ 389.50 . I notify Shark of the error and be inform by Shark that there be nothing they could do to correct the problem . They tell me that because it be already charge they could not correct the problem . They say the only thing they could do be give me a 20 % discount off the total . I do not understand why they can not credit my account for the $ 389.50 and then charge me the monthly installment a promise . Unfortunately I do not read the customer review prior to my purchase . This be clearly a mistake make by Shark and not by me when the order be take . It be also clear that the order taker over the phone tell me I would be charge the first monthly installment prior to the back and be ship so it be clear I be suppose to be charge monthly installments and not the lump sum . Obviously this be no way to do business . Unfortunately this have happen to me and would like other buyer to be aware . Also I would like buyer to be aware that they be unwilling to correct their mistake . Thank you for ... add your response Helpful ? Yes No Holly of Tatum , TX on Dec. 20 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating On Dec 2 , 2014 the beater bar on my Shark professional Euro pro vacuum stop turn . I call customer service and they ask me to turn it off/ then back on and press a button on the top . The beater bar still be not work . They say that they would send me a new motor/ beater bar unit . It arrive on Dec 19 , 2014 and I put the top part of my vacuum cleaner onto it and it crank right up ! I just get finish vacuum my whole house . They do not want me to ship the old unit to them . It seem that the problem be not a break belt , but rather an electrical switch that fail over time . I 'm sure they have have to replace enough of these unit to cause them to find another switch provider . Great vacuum ! ! ! The only improvement I would suggest be for them to sell replacement filter at Walmart . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Brent of Boerne , TX on Dec. 18 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I be watch a info commercial advertising the Shark Vacuum Pro vacuum sweeper . They advertise all the great extra you will get with the offer , but hurry in the next 3 minute or you `` will miss out '' on this offer . I get online , order the vacuum for $ 300 . I get my email confirmation and discover they charge you $ 56 to ship your vacuum and oh by the way ... .back order for 6 week . I get on the live chat and the lady tell me it will ship on the 17th of December . Checked today . 6 Weeks . What a rip off to advertise this awesome deal and hurry , but you will have to wait 6 week . I guess I need to go to Home Depot and buy a $ 39 shop vac and clean up the house . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Shelly of Anderson , CA on Dec. 16 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I have have my $ 200.00 vacuum for about 2 year and have think I make a good purchase until now . The brush stop rotate so I take it in to be repair . Well Shark only sell part to consumer . What good do that do me ? I do n't fix vacuum ! Not to mention the fact that it need repair anyway . So when I go to pick it up they say that the motor that turn the brush have go out , so I have to call the company and order the new $ 70.00 part and fix it myself . IF I choose to do that I will have almost spend $ 300.00 for this vacuum because I also have to replace the furniture attachment because it break also . I SHOULD HAVE BOUGHT A DYSON . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Cindy of Duluth , GA on Dec. 9 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I have a Shark hand hold vacuum , similar to the Dirt Devil . This thing be a piece of junk . ( Language filter fully on ! ) I can only use it for five minute before it overheat and stop . The Shark customer service contact tell me to make sure the filter be clean . What ? Every time I use the damn thing ? ( Language filter only work at 50 % level . ) I also complain about my upright vacuum and Shark immediately send a replacement end for the vacuum . Kind of lead me to believe that there be a problem and Shark only deal with it when confront by a customer . These thing be piece of CRAP ! YOU DO NOT WANT ONE ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No horace h. of San Francisco , Other on Dec. 7 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating SHARK PRODUCTS ARE THROW AWAY JUNK , December 6 , 2014 . This review be from : Shark Navigator Upright Vac ( Kitchen ) . Shark product be all GARBAGE . We have own a few , suckered to purchase by their slick advertising , and ALL be JUNK after a short period of time . A very poorly make product in the most general sense . This company personify the throw away mentality , but even so , it should not be shortly after purchase . These product be make to last a long a it take you to exit the store . Keep your receipt . I buy some at Bed , Bath and Beyond because they have a very consumer friendly return policy , and I know they would take them back when they break , or in the case of the handhelds , when the battery stop charge . We go to Dyson and have be please add your response Helpful ? Yes No Julie of Flippin , AR on Dec. 1 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I have be watch the TV commercial and felt this be the right vacuum to purchase . I go online to make the purchase and be want model NV650 . It say it come with the follow : ( cut and paste ) Powered Lift-Away , Vacuum pod detach allow you to reach under the low space with a powerful motorize floor nozzle , TruePet Mini Motorized Brush Attachment , 3 Vacuums In One , Hard-Floor Genie Attachment , Shark Anti-Allergen Complete Seal Technology + HEPA / Washable Filters , and Cleans Bare Floors . When I go to purchase all the attachment be miss in the itemized section . So I call and they tell me that would cost me another $ 100 dollar , even though they advertise it a $ 249 total for this model with attachment list . Online chat disconnect me when I ask to speak to manager . Rep be just read from script . I even cut and paste their own advertisement from their own website and it mean nothing to the rep . I try to call the 800 number and get the same response . I be transfer to another department and hung up on before they even take the call . I be excite to buy this vacuum but refuse to give my money to a company that have no respect for it customer . I believe this be call bait and switch ! I will pay the extra and buy Dyson . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Douglas of Clermont , FL on Nov. 28 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Shark cordless 18-volt less than 9-months old . The rotator attachment stop rotate so I remove the four screw to identify any problem . Just like any standard upright vacuum that have a rotating brush , it be manufacture with a BELT to rotate the brush head . Any other vacuum offer replacement belt . It 's normal wear and tear a they begin to stretch out . I call the Mfg direct and they do not sell the belt alone , instead they only offer a replacement rotator assembly for 27.95 which include ship . The whole vacuum itself only cost $ 60 . I feel that this be fraudulent marketing of a product and will be forward to the Attorney General 's office for investigation . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Paul of New York , NY on Nov. 24 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I purchase my shark on 5/18/2013 for $ 297 and it have already stop work on 11/21/2014 . A little over 1 year and the vacuum be broke . I contact Shark about their 5 yr VIP warranty and be tell that I have 2 option : 1 . ) to ship it back to them and have a new one return to me at my own expense or 2 . ) they will give me a discount on the purchase of a new vacuum . I 'm sorry but what good be a warranty if I have to pay for shipping which will most likely cost me $ 80+ . I would strongly recommend buy a vacuum from a local retailer and purchase their extended warranty . That way , you can bring it back whenever there 's an issue . add your response Helpful ? Yes No patricia of Collingdale , PA on Nov. 14 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I use the carpet cleaner once . Hated it . It do n't really clean my carpet and leave it wet . The Navigator the hose be n't long so when I use it , the vacuum fall on me . Anyone interest in the carpet cleaner , let me know all chemical include . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Lynn of Loveland , FL on Nov. 8 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Do not buy this product ! ! You can not change a break belt . Instead you have to replace the low part of the vacuum . $ 59.95 for the assembly and you pay ship too . Rip off ! Buy a $ 50 Bissell ... they last about a year . And you can actually replace the belt . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Laura of Baltimore , MD on Nov. 1 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating DO NOT BUY ! ! I order the Shark Rotator vacuum , it be OK price & come with the steam mop . This vacuum be brand new from manufacturer & it shock me when I try to use it . It be the vacuum , not the outlet . I 've read similar complaint & plan on contacting the BBB about this , Shark pretend not to know about this problem . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Kathleen of Wooli , Other on Oct. 18 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I purchase the vacuum cleaner one year ago . It have from the beginning some suction problem but yesterday it blow up with spark fly everywhere . If we do not have a circuit switch I would have be electrocute ! ! ! ! It be suppose to have a ten year guarantee and we have send off the warranty . Now I just want my money back , it be just not good business to claim what a great product you be buy and I be disappointed in myself for even get now . Trying to get hold of the company and a usual can not get hold of anyone . I need to have the warranty and docket that I send to claim money back ! I be feed up with advertising of how great item be and I have never bring anything before until the Shark hit Big W . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Mona of Wheeling , WV on Oct. 15 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I purchase the Navigator layaway from an infomercial and all of the extra attachment be include . Now for the past 2 month they be charge me what I pay the previous 4 month and when I call she tell me I order the professional model . I tell the lady on the phone when I order it I do n't want anything extra than what be offer on the tv special . I 'm really upset and ask the company what I can do and they say nothing ... .. add your response Helpful ? Yes No lee of Naples , FL on Oct. 13 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating The unit have a serious flaw regard it upright stability if you be use it only a a carpet cleaner . It work fine but if you disconnect the suction hose from the base and start use an attachment it will fall straight over and often will bash you on the back of the head along with anything else in it reach . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Beate of Rainsville , AL on Oct. 13 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Placed an order for this infomercial and 55.95 shipping and they can not find my order ! No contact available , no order number supply , credit card charge $ 225.95 . add your response Helpful ? Yes No joan of Deer Park , WA on Oct. 6 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I will say on the positive side of this issue , that I have love the performance of my Shark Navigator . I need a replacement belt , and they be not available ! This be the first vacuum I have own where I could not replace a simple belt ! ! I ca n't even buy one . I be told by a company rep. that I would need to replace the whole bottom part of the unit , and at $ 59.95 , plus ship and ten day wait period to have it deliver , I may as well buy a new one . I will be buy a vacuum with replaceable belt this time ... .not a Shark . I also say I want to answer the survey at the end of the call , and the rep. say that she be transfer me , and I be disconnect ! ! ... .Imagine that ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Next page Euro-Pro Company Profile Basic Information Company Name : Euro-Pro Website : www.sharkclean.com Home Brands Blog About Us FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your use of this site constitute acceptance of the Terms of Use . Advertisements on this site be place and controlled by outside advertising network . ConsumerAffairs.com do not evaluate or endorse the product and service advertise . See the FAQ for more information . Partner with ConsumerAffairs for Brands If your company have a page on our site , we invite you to sign up for a Starter Account today to respond to your customer directly . Alternatively , you may call u at 1-866-773-0221 . For more information , see about u , FAQ and privacy policy . The information on this Web site be general in nature and be not intend a a substitute for competent legal advice . ConsumerAffairs.com make no representation a to the accuracy of the information herein provide and assumes no liability for any damage or loss arise from the use thereof . Sentiment Analysis power by Netbase Copyright 2015 Consumers Unified LLC . All Rights Reserved . The content of this site may not be republish , reprint , rewritten or recirculated without write permission . Connect with u Contact u Sign up for our consumer newsletter Sign up Write a review Home Consumer News Consumer Resources Log in Connect with u Loading Had an experience with Euro-Pro ? Tell Everyone ! Or record a review about your experience with Shark Navigator Vacuum : Login to record a Review Euro-Pro I 'm with the company We do n't currently support customer response to review , but you be welcome to write a review and share your experience . Record a video review shark navigator vacuum review - consumeraffairs.com menu consumer affair contain consumer news consumer resource write a review search log in shark navigator vacuum home > homeowner > vacuum are you this business ? learn about consumeraffairs for brand ! overall satisfaction rating 1.54 /5 base on 65 rating out of 72 review 5 star 3 5 % 4 star 1 2 % 3 star 2 3 % 2 star 16 25 % 1 star 43 66 % show rating distribution compare vacuum research top vacuum recommendation on consumeraffairs compare company tell u about your experience with shark navigator vacuum : write a review record a review about your experience with shark navigator vacuum : login to record a review tell u about your experience with shark navigator vacuum : write a review share this page facebook twitter google+ email link consumer complaint & review 72 consumer complaint and review 72 complaint filter by : see all most helpful 5 star 4 star 3 star 2 star 1 star see all most helpful 5 star 4 star 3 star 2 star 1 star jessica of knoxville , tn on feb. 13 , 2015 satisfaction rating got a vacuum and the head stop spin . called and get a new head sent out free of charge . turn out , the second one stopped working too and after 30 second late , we have a whole new vacuum on the way . honestly , this be the best customer service i have ever experience . add your response helpful ? yes no linda of de soto , il on feb. 5 , 2015 satisfaction rating i be amaze every time i use my shark navigator by the amount of dust and dirt it pick up from what i think to be a clean carpet . i buy one for myself and talk my father in law into purchase one for their home a well and he be amaze when i clean his house weekly at just how much stuff end up in the canister . i love the way the head swivel to easily get under furniture and the ease of use . also , love the fact that i can lift off the canister and carry it with the tool to get in hard to reach place . i could do my own info commercial on this product . in fact , i buy a 2nd one that i 'm keep in the box just in case something go wrong with my first one . add your response helpful ? yes no jenny of randleman , nc on feb. 1 , 2015 satisfaction rating i love my shark . it really pick up the dirt deep in the carpet . i know because it take no time to fill up the canister . the shark begin to give me electrical shock and i really think maybe it have something to do with static in the air but it get worse . i have to be careful where i touch the vacuum when vacuum . then one day it stop shock me - the same day the roller brush stop work . i have contact the company with no response . i own my vacuum for only 3 month . this be the first expensive vacuum i have own and what a waste of money . i will return to buying less expensive vacuum . would rather have 3 $ 60.00 vacuum than one good one that be defective . wish i have keep the receipt . add your response helpful ? yes no lucaya of clarksville , tn on jan. 30 , 2015 satisfaction rating my husband and i purchase a shark navigator lift-away pro , model number nv355 approximately nine month ago . within only a few month , the brush roll begin to rattle and even when completely clean , the vacuum would only work on carpet for a few minute . i call on january 7th to use the warranty to replace or repair the unit . i be notify at the time that my only two option be to either spend an additional $ 100 for a new vacuum , or pay nearly that same amount in shipping and handling for the vacuum to be send to the only repair location in the country , california . my husband and i be both military , and money be extremely tight . i fail to see the value of a warranty that penalize customer after less than a year of own a vacuum that do not work . i voice my concern to the phone operator , julianne , and request to speak to a manager . julianne notify me that there be no manager currently work , which i find incredibly difficult to believe . i then request to speak with a district manager . julianne again state that not only could she not connect me with that individual , but she do not even have their information . she tell me that i would be contact by a manager within 24-48 hour . i wait over five day before hearing anything , receive a voice mail during a family emergency . after settle our family affair , i call the number back on january 29th , and be tell that the same manager , ( sarah ) , who attempt to contact me in mid-january be currently come back from lunch and that i would have to hang up and she would call me back in 5-10 minute . while someone do call back , i be unable to reach the phone . i call back immediately and be notify by another phone representative that they have absolutely no idea who sarah be , that there be no manager currently work , there be no method for telephone operator to transfer a call to a manager , and that i would have to hang up and wait another 24-48 hour for a manager to get in contact with me . i would like to state that this be the absolute worst business model i have ever hear of concerning customer support . the point of a customer like myself call implies that this be the time they be available to talk about the problem they be have , be force to wait for an arbitrary phone call that may or may not even happen implies that shark do not care about their customer or their integrity . be tell several time that there be no manager currently work , and even if they be work , the phone representative have no method of get in contact with them alert me to the possibility that shark may not be operate within the standard of federal law . not only be the shark vacuum the bad vacuum i have ever buy , but it warranty be worthless and call the customer help line be an exercise in futility . do not buy from this company , you will regret it ! add your response helpful ? yes no evelyn of san diego , ca on jan. 30 , 2015 satisfaction rating i have a shark navigator . it be only a couple year old . i find it have a 5 year warranty . something inside broke ( i could hear it rattle ) ; it 's the 'kickstand ' feature that allow the vacc to 'click into place ' and ( for lack of a good description ) , pop a wheelie so you can wheel it around . the bottom part ( call the power nozzle ) just kind of flopped off the end of the unit . you have to pick the whole thing up to move from room to room . so ... try to first take care of it myself ( rather than , i presume , ship it somewhere and leave me without a vacc for x # of day ) , i bring it to my local vacc repair shop . they could n't fix it but show me the part that have crack , and advise me to contact the manufacturer for repair . so i call ... and ( try to be helpful ) tell them i know what be wrong with it - i have save them some time and bring it somewhere . dead silence . `` you what ? ? ? '' `` i bring it to a vacc place '' . `` well - you just void your warranty . '' wtf ? i say `` be you kid , '' he say no . seriously ? ? ? i say `` well let 's pretend this conversation do n't happen and i 'll call back . '' no can do . boy this 'helpful agent ' ( not ) be be really hard-nosed . bottom line : they would not honor the warranty ! merely because i do some advance legwork . they offer to sell me a replacement ( probably refurbish ) , for $ 29.99 . no thank you . a few month late my niece have the same problem with hers ( buy around the same time ) . i say `` do n't take it anywhere '' so she do n't . she call and report it . after a long conversation the 'helpful agent ' say `` i 'll just send you a whole new unit . '' a new vacuum ? yes ! ( she figure by now there be lot of people complain about this ) . the box arrive . the co. only send a power nozzle ! she call the company and they refuse to honor the promise make by the agent . they say `` we do n't send new vacuum out for free '' ( but this be to replace their defective unit ! ) . they offer to sell her a new one at a reduce price - $ 70 or so . this be a classic bait and switch . ( do n't they realize there be more to lose , by not honor what the agent promise to do ? if they 'd send a new vacc we would both be sing their praise , i would be write a glowing review ... instead of me write this novel ) . so she be stuck with just the new brush attachment . in addition to this , this company be not reachable by email , you ca n't reply back to the transaction receipt they send , and the 'live chat ' be worthless when the person/robot you be live-chatting with ... keep refer you to their 800 number . i will not be buy another one of their product and neither will my niece . add your response helpful ? yes no sherry of white hall , ar on jan. 26 , 2015 satisfaction rating i order the shark rotator power lift-away vacuum online directly from shark on 1/15/15 . i immediately receive an email state my order be on backorder with no estimate for delivery give . today almost two week late i call phone number in my email , be only able to use the automate system still on backorder with no estimate delivery date . i try several time to speak to a human but my call would somehow always end before i be connect . meanwhile i continue to see the infomercial on tv several time every day . i call the number to order and the saleslady have no knowledge of the backorder situation , a far a she know the product be available . i tell her i have be unable to speak to anyone when i call the customer service number so she offer to connect me , same problem i be never connect to a human , grrr ! i finally used the live chat link from my email and after a lengthy wait an agent come online . i ask her if i make an order by phone and cancel my online order if i would get it sooner . she say , no it would be on backorder either way . she estimate my order would ship in 4-6 week ! i have not be charge any money a i pay through paypal and wo n't be charge until it ship , thank goodness . most website tell you upfront if a product be on backorder . it seem unethical to keep take order that wo n't be fill for that long without tell the customer upfront . anyone considering order this should be warn you may be wait to get your order for much long than when you order from most company . add your response helpful ? yes no craig of colorado spring , co on jan. 21 , 2015 satisfaction rating customer service ... . first attempt : i be attempt to acquire the mailing address to send in my shark vacuum for repair . the power head stop work and be inform i need to send in the entire unit . try and find a box to ship , what fun and 36 dollar shipment . i be assist ( she be okay ) and be tell i need to call customer service . the phone number i be give by the live chat person at about 1:30 mst ( amanda ? ? ) connect me to ( 1 800 798-7398 ) a national directory . after several minute with her , i be transfer to c/s . a person name valerie answer and i explain that i need the address to send in my shark vacuum for repair . with sub-standard phone connection i be able to get a partial address after several attempt . euro something @ one something genesis way . when i ask valerie if she could send me the address via the email address i just give her , she disconnect the call without an answer . after wait for about 30 minute for an email , i again attempt the live chat session to address my issue . i be third in line and after several minute , i be connect with julie . a i be type in my request , my session be terminate . so far very lousy customer service over all . i access live chat again ( about 2:30 mst ) and speak with jory . i explain i need the address to send in my shark vacuum for repair . the person at customer service ( valerie ) be not very helpful at all . i be able to get a partial address ; euro something at one something genesis way , spring pine , nc.28777 . jory be prompt and give me the address . wow . for such an awesome product to have such lousy c/s ... i be shock . please include my comment in your survey . not happy ! ! ! add your response helpful ? yes no robert of sebastian , fl on jan. 18 , 2015 satisfaction rating bought a shark rotator pro ( nv502q ) about 6 month ago . the suction elbow release latch that hold the elbow in place vanish and need to be replace with about a 10 cent replacement piece . went to the shark online chat and tell them what i need . i get the same response that another reviewer previously get and that be , for the 10 cent piece , i either need to box up the unit and send it to them for repair and then pay the freight both way - for them to snap on a clip ! of course , my other choice be to buy a new unit ( really ? ! ) at a discount . this be ** ! i would never recommend a shark unit to anyone a a result of this easily avoidable situation . this be what be wrong with the world . poor judgement , poor diagnosis and solution to the problem . wonder why thing cost so much ? i do n't ! add your response helpful ? yes no faye of gladstone , or on jan. 12 , 2015 satisfaction rating i order the vacuum the first of october . they say the first payment and ship and handling would be take out in the first 24 hour and the vacuum would be deliver in 4 to 6 week . well , i wait and wait for the $ 105.00 to be take out . so by december , when it still be n't take out , i decide i be n't go to be get it , so i use the money for christmas . december 24th i get a surprise . i be overdraw in my bank like $ 95.00 . they have finally take out the money without any warn . but on the bright side , i get the vacuum a few day late . add your response helpful ? yes no jeremiah of laporte , tx on jan. 6 , 2015 satisfaction rating a small red button on the nv-501 model broke . it hold the hose elbow in place but with out it , the hose just come out make the rather expensive vacuum nonfunctioning . i call customer support . they inform me that the small button be not a replacement price they offer . now this small button could not cost 1/2 to 1 cent to make . so their solution be offer me a discount on a new unit of 75 dollar off . the vacuum be less then 6 month old . this be ridiculous and now i wish i would have pop the extra money for the dyson . add your response helpful ? yes no richard of poquoson , va on jan. 3 , 2015 satisfaction rating after 7 month the motorize floor brush roller on my nv 355 fail to function . i call shark tech support and after several attempt to get the brush roller to work i be told that i would need a new motorized brush roller and it be not cover under warranty . $ 59.99 plus ship and handling for a total of $ 75.00 . 5-year warranty on what ? add your response helpful ? yes no james of detroit , mi on dec. 24 , 2014 satisfaction rating i contact euro ( shark ) to purchase a vacuum for my daughter for xmas . i tell them i be on a fix income and want the payment deduct from my account on or around the 1st of the month , i be assure this would be the case . after receive the email notification ( 3 ) out of the ( 4 ) month be before the 1st . i contact euro with my concern . i be told to cancel the order and replace it a this would reset the day so the payment would be deduct a i specify . i tell the rep this be go to be a xmas gift and i have to have it arrive before xmas ; `` no problem , '' i be told . i contact euro on ( 3 ) occasion and each time i be reassure there would be no problem . i contact them today xmas eve after discover fedex say it be ship 12/22/14 @ 2:00 pm . i contact euro . fed ex say it a saturday delivery , now i be go to look stupid arriving without a gift , that 's a fine merry xmas , thanks . euro say `` the order be not include in the air mail shipment . '' `` and why be it not include , not a priority ? i be promise it be go to be ship . '' euro say `` unable to cancel your order because it have already ship . you can return it under the 60 day money back trial period . '' just forget it . i wo n't be order from shark in the future . that 's what be wrong with business today , the order be place over 3 week ago . just screw shark . i will make it my journey to post these result . add your response helpful ? yes no eve of hilltop , mn on dec. 23 , 2014 satisfaction rating my vacuum 's motor start to go out and i call customer support - no resolution . and then it completely go out so i call customer support again and ask them what can i do about it . they ask me to send the vacuum back and my own expense . then they offer me to get a discount vacuum cleaner for $ 100 and i just felt a though why would i pay for another vacuum when there 's clearly something wrong with my vacuum cleaner . i think their service suck and it 's a rip off . i pay 200 dollar only to pay another hundred dollar . that 's ridiculous . add your response helpful ? yes no joe of hartsville , tn on dec. 22 , 2014 satisfaction rating i order a shark navigator vacuum after watch the infomercial on television . i order it over the phone and ask for the six monthly installment of $ 49.95 . i be told i would be charge the first monthly payment of 4995 before the vacuum would be ship . i agree and they assure me back it would be ship within nine business day . the vacuum be deliver within the nine business day . when i receive my credit card bill i be charge the full amount of $ 389.50 . i notify shark of the error and be inform by shark that there be nothing they could do to correct the problem . they tell me that because it be already charge they could not correct the problem . they say the only thing they could do be give me a 20 % discount off the total . i do not understand why they can not credit my account for the $ 389.50 and then charge me the monthly installment a promise . unfortunately i do not read the customer review prior to my purchase . this be clearly a mistake make by shark and not by me when the order be take . it be also clear that the order taker over the phone tell me i would be charge the first monthly installment prior to the back and be ship so it be clear i be suppose to be charge monthly installments and not the lump sum . obviously this be no way to do business . unfortunately this have happen to me and would like other buyer to be aware . also i would like buyer to be aware that they be unwilling to correct their mistake . thank you for ... add your response helpful ? yes no holly of tatum , tx on dec. 20 , 2014 satisfaction rating on dec 2 , 2014 the beater bar on my shark professional euro pro vacuum stop turn . i call customer service and they ask me to turn it off/ then back on and press a button on the top . the beater bar still be not work . they say that they would send me a new motor/ beater bar unit . it arrive on dec 19 , 2014 and i put the top part of my vacuum cleaner onto it and it crank right up ! i just get finish vacuum my whole house . they do not want me to ship the old unit to them . it seem that the problem be not a break belt , but rather an electrical switch that fail over time . i 'm sure they have have to replace enough of these unit to cause them to find another switch provider . great vacuum ! ! ! the only improvement i would suggest be for them to sell replacement filter at walmart . add your response helpful ? yes no brent of boerne , tx on dec. 18 , 2014 satisfaction rating i be watch a info commercial advertising the shark vacuum pro vacuum sweeper . they advertise all the great extra you will get with the offer , but hurry in the next 3 minute or you `` will miss out '' on this offer . i get online , order the vacuum for $ 300 . i get my email confirmation and discover they charge you $ 56 to ship your vacuum and oh by the way ... .back order for 6 week . i get on the live chat and the lady tell me it will ship on the 17th of december . checked today . 6 week . what a rip off to advertise this awesome deal and hurry , but you will have to wait 6 week . i guess i need to go to home depot and buy a $ 39 shop vac and clean up the house . add your response helpful ? yes no shelly of anderson , ca on dec. 16 , 2014 satisfaction rating i have have my $ 200.00 vacuum for about 2 year and have think i make a good purchase until now . the brush stop rotate so i take it in to be repair . well shark only sell part to consumer . what good do that do me ? i do n't fix vacuum ! not to mention the fact that it need repair anyway . so when i go to pick it up they say that the motor that turn the brush have go out , so i have to call the company and order the new $ 70.00 part and fix it myself . if i choose to do that i will have almost spend $ 300.00 for this vacuum because i also have to replace the furniture attachment because it break also . i should have bought a dyson . add your response helpful ? yes no cindy of duluth , ga on dec. 9 , 2014 satisfaction rating i have a shark hand hold vacuum , similar to the dirt devil . this thing be a piece of junk . ( language filter fully on ! ) i can only use it for five minute before it overheat and stop . the shark customer service contact tell me to make sure the filter be clean . what ? every time i use the damn thing ? ( language filter only work at 50 % level . ) i also complain about my upright vacuum and shark immediately send a replacement end for the vacuum . kind of lead me to believe that there be a problem and shark only deal with it when confront by a customer . these thing be piece of crap ! you do not want one ! add your response helpful ? yes no horace h. of san francisco , other on dec. 7 , 2014 satisfaction rating shark product are throw away junk , december 6 , 2014 . this review be from : shark navigator upright vac ( kitchen ) . shark product be all garbage . we have own a few , suckered to purchase by their slick advertising , and all be junk after a short period of time . a very poorly make product in the most general sense . this company personify the throw away mentality , but even so , it should not be shortly after purchase . these product be make to last a long a it take you to exit the store . keep your receipt . i buy some at bed , bath and beyond because they have a very consumer friendly return policy , and i know they would take them back when they break , or in the case of the handhelds , when the battery stop charge . we go to dyson and have be please add your response helpful ? yes no julie of flippin , ar on dec. 1 , 2014 satisfaction rating i have be watch the tv commercial and felt this be the right vacuum to purchase . i go online to make the purchase and be want model nv650 . it say it come with the follow : ( cut and paste ) powered lift-away , vacuum pod detach allow you to reach under the low space with a powerful motorize floor nozzle , truepet mini motorized brush attachment , 3 vacuum in one , hard-floor genie attachment , shark anti-allergen complete seal technology + hepa / washable filter , and clean bare floor . when i go to purchase all the attachment be miss in the itemized section . so i call and they tell me that would cost me another $ 100 dollar , even though they advertise it a $ 249 total for this model with attachment list . online chat disconnect me when i ask to speak to manager . rep be just read from script . i even cut and paste their own advertisement from their own website and it mean nothing to the rep . i try to call the 800 number and get the same response . i be transfer to another department and hung up on before they even take the call . i be excite to buy this vacuum but refuse to give my money to a company that have no respect for it customer . i believe this be call bait and switch ! i will pay the extra and buy dyson . add your response helpful ? yes no douglas of clermont , fl on nov. 28 , 2014 satisfaction rating shark cordless 18-volt less than 9-months old . the rotator attachment stop rotate so i remove the four screw to identify any problem . just like any standard upright vacuum that have a rotating brush , it be manufacture with a belt to rotate the brush head . any other vacuum offer replacement belt . it 's normal wear and tear a they begin to stretch out . i call the mfg direct and they do not sell the belt alone , instead they only offer a replacement rotator assembly for 27.95 which include ship . the whole vacuum itself only cost $ 60 . i feel that this be fraudulent marketing of a product and will be forward to the attorney general 's office for investigation . add your response helpful ? yes no paul of new york , ny on nov. 24 , 2014 satisfaction rating i purchase my shark on 5/18/2013 for $ 297 and it have already stop work on 11/21/2014 . a little over 1 year and the vacuum be broke . i contact shark about their 5 yr vip warranty and be tell that i have 2 option : 1 . ) to ship it back to them and have a new one return to me at my own expense or 2 . ) they will give me a discount on the purchase of a new vacuum . i 'm sorry but what good be a warranty if i have to pay for shipping which will most likely cost me $ 80+ . i would strongly recommend buy a vacuum from a local retailer and purchase their extended warranty . that way , you can bring it back whenever there 's an issue . add your response helpful ? yes no patricia of collingdale , pa on nov. 14 , 2014 satisfaction rating i use the carpet cleaner once . hated it . it do n't really clean my carpet and leave it wet . the navigator the hose be n't long so when i use it , the vacuum fall on me . anyone interest in the carpet cleaner , let me know all chemical include . add your response helpful ? yes no lynn of loveland , fl on nov. 8 , 2014 satisfaction rating do not buy this product ! ! you can not change a break belt . instead you have to replace the low part of the vacuum . $ 59.95 for the assembly and you pay ship too . rip off ! buy a $ 50 bissell ... they last about a year . and you can actually replace the belt . add your response helpful ? yes no laura of baltimore , md on nov. 1 , 2014 satisfaction rating do not buy ! ! i order the shark rotator vacuum , it be ok price & come with the steam mop . this vacuum be brand new from manufacturer & it shock me when i try to use it . it be the vacuum , not the outlet . i 've read similar complaint & plan on contacting the bbb about this , shark pretend not to know about this problem . add your response helpful ? yes no kathleen of wooli , other on oct. 18 , 2014 satisfaction rating i purchase the vacuum cleaner one year ago . it have from the beginning some suction problem but yesterday it blow up with spark fly everywhere . if we do not have a circuit switch i would have be electrocute ! ! ! ! it be suppose to have a ten year guarantee and we have send off the warranty . now i just want my money back , it be just not good business to claim what a great product you be buy and i be disappointed in myself for even get now . try to get hold of the company and a usual can not get hold of anyone . i need to have the warranty and docket that i send to claim money back ! i be feed up with advertising of how great item be and i have never bring anything before until the shark hit big w . add your response helpful ? yes no mona of wheeling , wv on oct. 15 , 2014 satisfaction rating i purchase the navigator layaway from an infomercial and all of the extra attachment be include . now for the past 2 month they be charge me what i pay the previous 4 month and when i call she tell me i order the professional model . i tell the lady on the phone when i order it i do n't want anything extra than what be offer on the tv special . i 'm really upset and ask the company what i can do and they say nothing ... .. add your response helpful ? yes no lee of naples , fl on oct. 13 , 2014 satisfaction rating the unit have a serious flaw regard it upright stability if you be use it only a a carpet cleaner . it work fine but if you disconnect the suction hose from the base and start use an attachment it will fall straight over and often will bash you on the back of the head along with anything else in it reach . add your response helpful ? yes no beate of rainsville , al on oct. 13 , 2014 satisfaction rating placed an order for this infomercial and 55.95 shipping and they can not find my order ! no contact available , no order number supply , credit card charge $ 225.95 . add your response helpful ? yes no joan of deer park , wa on oct. 6 , 2014 satisfaction rating i will say on the positive side of this issue , that i have love the performance of my shark navigator . i need a replacement belt , and they be not available ! this be the first vacuum i have own where i could not replace a simple belt ! ! i ca n't even buy one . i be told by a company rep. that i would need to replace the whole bottom part of the unit , and at $ 59.95 , plus ship and ten day wait period to have it deliver , i may as well buy a new one . i will be buy a vacuum with replaceable belt this time ... .not a shark . i also say i want to answer the survey at the end of the call , and the rep. say that she be transfer me , and i be disconnect ! ! ... .imagine that ! ! add your response helpful ? yes no next page euro-pro company profile basic information company name : euro-pro website : www.sharkclean.com home brand blog about u faq term of use privacy policy term of use your use of this site constitute acceptance of the term of use . advertisement on this site be place and controlled by outside advertising network . consumeraffairs.com do not evaluate or endorse the product and service advertise . see the faq for more information . partner with consumeraffairs for brand if your company have a page on our site , we invite you to sign up for a starter account today to respond to your customer directly . alternatively , you may call u at 1-866-773-0221 . for more information , see about u , faq and privacy policy . the information on this web site be general in nature and be not intend a a substitute for competent legal advice . consumeraffairs.com make no representation a to the accuracy of the information herein provide and assumes no liability for any damage or loss arise from the use thereof . sentiment analysis power by netbase copyright 2015 consumer unify llc . all right reserve . the content of this site may not be republish , reprint , rewritten or recirculated without write permission . connect with u contact u sign up for our consumer newsletter sign up write a review home consumer news consumer resource log in connect with u load had an experience with euro-pro ? tell everyone ! or record a review about your experience with shark navigator vacuum : login to record a review euro-pro i 'm with the company we do n't currently support customer response to review , but you be welcome to write a review and share your experience . record a video review 