How to quantify household electricity end-use consumption Advanced Search Papers Articles Authors Institutions Data ( FRED ) Advanced Search IDEAS home Browse for material Papers Articles Software Books Chapters Authors Institutions Data ( FRED ) Find material JEL Classification NEP report Search Pub compilation Reading list More option be now at bottom of page IDEAS be a service host by the Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Curious about new research in your field ? Subscribe to a NEP Report . It be free . Printed from http : //ideas.repec.org/ Share : MyIDEAS : Login to save this paper or follow this series How to quantify household electricity end-use consumption Contents : Author info Abstract Bibliographic info Download info Related research References Citations Lists Statistics Corrections Author Info Bodil M. Larsen Runa Nesbakken ( ) ( Statistics Norway ) Registered author ( s ) : Abstract Information about total electricity consumption be available for most household . However , the electricity consumption relate to different end us , e.g . space heating , water heating , light and service from household appliance be usually not meter . Metering data be very costly to achieve , and in this paper we study two method for end-use estimation , which can be apply on household data for appliance holding , demographic and economic variable . The first method be the engineering model which have be use to calculate the so far only document Norwegian end-use result apply on data from a Norwegian energy survey . The second method be an econometric conditional demand model apply on data from the same survey . We compare the numerical result from the two model and give some recommendation regard choice of end-use approach and what question to implement in household survey design to disaggregate electricity consumption . Download Info If you experience problem download a file , check if you have the proper application to view it first . In case of further problem read the IDEAS help page . Note that these file be not on the IDEAS site . Please be patient a the file may be large . File URL : http : //www.ssb.no/a/publikasjoner/pdf/DP/dp346.pdf Download Restriction : no Bibliographic Info Paper provide by Research Department of Statistics Norway in it series Discussion Papers with number 346 . a HTML HTML with abstract plain text plain text with abstract BibTeX RIS ( EndNote , RefMan , ProCite ) ReDIF JSON in new window Length : Date of creation : Mar 2003 Date of revision : Handle : RePEc : ssb : dispap:346 Contact detail of provider : Postal : P.O.Box 8131 Dep , N-0033 Oslo , Norway Phone : ( +47 ) 21 09 00 00 Fax : ( +47 ) 21 09 49 73 Web page : http : //www.ssb.no/en/ Email : More information through EDIRC Related research Keywords : Electricity end-use consumption ; econometric conditional demand model ; engineering model . ; Find relate paper by JEL classification : C51 - Mathematical and Quantitative Methods - - Econometric Modeling - - - Model Construction and Estimation D12 - Microeconomics - - Household Behavior - - - Consumer Economics : Empirical Analysis Q40 - Agricultural and Natural Resource Economics ; Environmental and Ecological Economics - - Energy - - - General This paper have be announce in the following NEP Reports : NEP-ALL-2003-06-04 ( All new paper ) References References list on IDEAS Please report citation or reference error to , or , if you be the register author of the cite work , log in to your RePEc Author Service profile , click on `` citation '' and make appropriate adjustment . : a HTML HTML with abstract plain text plain text with abstract BibTeX RIS ( EndNote , RefMan , ProCite ) ReDIF JSON in new window repec : dgr : kubcen:199056 be not list on IDEAS Bartels , R. & Fiebig , D.G. , 1990 . `` Integrating Direct Metering And Conditional Demand Analysis Fr Estimating End-Use Loads , '' Papers 9056 , Tilburg - Center for Economic Research . Robert Bartels & G. Fiebig , 1990 . `` Integrating Direct Metering and Conditional Demand Analysis for Estimating End-Use Loads , '' The Energy Journal , International Association for Energy Economics , vol . 0 ( Number 4 ) , page 79-98 . Robert Bartels & Denzil G. Fiebig , 2000 . `` Residential End-Use Electricity Demand : Results from a Designed Experiment , '' The Energy Journal , International Association for Energy Economics , vol . 0 ( Number 2 ) , page 51-81 . Bauwens , L. & Fiebig , D. G. & Steel , M. F. J. , . `` Estimating End-use Demand : a Bayesian Approach , '' CORE Discussion Papers RP -1090 , Universit catholique de Louvain , Center for Operations Research and Econometrics ( CORE ) . Bauwens , Luc & Fiebig , Denzil G & Steel , Mark F J , 1994 . `` Estimating End-Use Demand : A Bayesian Approach , '' Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , American Statistical Association , vol . 12 ( 2 ) , page 221-31 , April . BAUWENS , Luc & FIEBIG , Denzil & STEEL , Mark , 1992 . `` Estimating End-Use Demand : A Bayesian Approach , '' CORE Discussion Papers 1992052 , Universit catholique de Louvain , Center for Operations Research and Econometrics ( CORE ) . Hsiao , C. & Mountain , D.C. & Ho , C.F. , 1994 . `` A Bayesian Integration of End-Use Metering and Conditional Demand Analysis , '' Papers 9411 , Southern California - Department of Economics . Hsiao , Cheng & Mountain , Dean C & Illman , Kathleen Ho , 1995 . `` A Bayesian Integration of End-Use Metering and Conditional-Demand Analysis , '' Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , American Statistical Association , vol . 13 ( 3 ) , page 315-26 , July . Dennis J. Aigner & Cynts Sorooshian & Pamela Kerwin , 1984 . `` Conditional Demand Analysis for Estimating Residential End-Use Load Profiles , '' The Energy Journal , International Association for Energy Economics , vol . 0 ( Number 3 ) , page 81-98 . Bartels , R. & Fiebig , D. , 1990 . `` Integrating Direct Metering and Conditional Demand Analysis for Estimating End-Use Loads , '' Discussion Paper 1990-56 , Tilburg University , Center for Economic Research . Sanchez , Marla C & Koomey , Jonathan G & Moezzi , Mithra M & Meier , Alan & Huber , Wolfgang , 1998 . `` Miscellaneous electricity in US home : Historical decomposition and future trend , '' Energy Policy , Elsevier , vol . 26 ( 8 ) , page 585-593 , July . Full reference ( include those not match with item on IDEAS ) Citations The CitEc project have not yet find citation to this item . Lists This item be not list on Wikipedia , on a reading list or among the top item on IDEAS . Statistics Access and download statistic Corrections When request a correction , please mention this item 's handle : RePEc : ssb : dispap:346 . See general information about how to correct material in RePEc . For technical question regard this item , or to correct it author , title , abstract , bibliographic or download information , contact : ( J Bruusgaard ) If you have author this item and be not yet register with RePEc , we encourage you to do it here . This allow to link your profile to this item . It also allow you to accept potential citation to this item that we be uncertain about . If reference be entirely miss , you can add them use this form . If the full reference list an item that be present in RePEc , but the system do not link to it , you can help with this form . If you know of miss item cite this one , you can help u create those link by add the relevant reference in the same way a above , for each refer item . If you be a register author of this item , you may also want to check the `` citation '' tab in your profile , a there may be some citation wait for confirmation . Please note that correction may take a couple of week to filter through the various RePEc service . More service MyIDEAS Follow series , journal , author & more New paper by email Subscribe to new addition to RePEc Author registration Public profile for Economics researcher Rankings Various ranking of research in Economics & related field Genealogy Who be a student of whom , use RePEc RePEc Biblio Curated article & paper various economics topic EconAcademics Blog aggregator for economics research Plagiarism Cases of plagiarism in Economics Job Market Papers RePEc working paper series dedicate to the job market 