Microwave or Stove : Whats More Efficient ? - The Green Life Sierra Daily Green Life Explore That Tree Daily Ray of Hope Animal Families Future Cities Nano Houses Bikes See All Slideshows The Green Life : Microwave or Stove : Whats More Efficient ? Sign up for daily green tip : Email : Required Spam Control Text : Please leave this field empty Recent Posts Hiking Guru Shares Perfect Paths Defending The F-Word Not Your Grandparents Road Trip : 5 Green Reasons to Visit National Parks How Can I Save Fuel on Summer Vacation Trips ? 5 Blogs about Sierra Club History Complete Archive Categories Animals Art Ask Mr. Green Books Business and Money Current Events Education Entertainment Events Fashion Film Food and Drink Gardening Health Home and Design Media No Goods Outdoors Pop Corner Q & A Recycling Religion Shopping Social Life Sports Technology Tips Transportation Travel Urban Planning Work Read the late issue of Sierra We love Adventure Journal Compass Daily Green Dot Earth ( NYT ) Ecocentro Earth911 Ecorazzi ENN Green Inc. ( NYT ) Grist Hey Mr. Green Huffington Post Green Inhabitat Sierra Club Insider Lay of the Land Los Angeles Times Environment Military Families Outdoors National Geographic NPR Environment Plastiki Scientific American TreeHugger Wired Planet Earth Yahoo ! Environment News Eco-Vocabulary Quiz : Climate Change | Main | Jamba Juice to Go Styrofoam-Free September 26 , 2012 Microwave or Stove : Whats More Efficient ? Hey Mr. Green , I have about quart of soup leave over . Is it more efficient to reheat it on my gas range or in my microwave ? Paul , in Kalamazoo , Michigan A microwave be a lot more efficient way to reheat than a stovetop , partly because a stovetop waste a fair amount of heat . According to the EPA , the microwave use 80 percent less energy when heating up relatively small amount . Although the microwave need a lot of electricity , it a relatively short burst of power . As the immortal Yogi Berra might put it , A watched pot never boil , but it boil quicker in a microwave . Of course you can make regular gas or electric cooking somewhat more efficient by matching the size of the burner to the size of the pot , and , well , duh , keep a lid on unless the recipe forbids . The EPA , for example , warn that use a six-inch pot on a eight-inch burner can waste a goodly portion of a burner heat . Although cook account for only 3 percent of the total greenhouse gas emission from residence , every bit we can cut be significant . Shaving off a few percent of each of thenine major residential-use category can result in substantial saving on your energy bill . In Michigan , at your present utility rate , to heat your soup in the microwave would cost you about 1.9 cent , while the gas burner would run you 6.8 cent . For the mathematically incline , here the story on microwave v. stovetop . Assuming you store your batch of soup in your fridgea practice I strongly recommendyoull be boost the temperature from the typical fridge reading of about 35 to 38 degree Fahrenheit to the boiling point , or about 180 degree . According to USDAs kitchen maven , you can heat a cup of ice-cold water to boiling in an 800-watt microwave in 2.5 minute . ( In the spirit of scientific inquiry , I independently verify this by testing the time-to-boil in my own microwave . ) So you get a cup from freeze to the boiling in 2.5 minute . To find out how much energy that took , you calculate the amount of electricity use in kilowatt hour ( kWh ) by taking the device wattage and multiply it by the time . So 2.5 minute = 0.042 hour , and 800 watt be .8 kW . Multiplying kWh capacity by time we get .8 ( 0.042 ) = .034 kWh to heat the cup of water . Now to gas , for which well start with the British thermal unit ( BTU ) . ( You could do this all in Joules and calorie if youre metrically incline . ) A Btu raise the temperature of a pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit . To raise a cup , or .5 pound of water from near freeze to 212 degree wed need .5 ( 180 ) Btus = or 90 Btus . However , since range top burner be only about 50 percentefficient , youll need 180 Btus total . Since kWh contain 3412 Btu , to heat a cup the stove would use the equivalent of 180/3412= 0 . 0.35 kWh . This make it seem that the microwave at .034 kWh be 10 time more efficient . But remember , when electricity be generate by fossil fuel , typically about two-thirds of the original energy be lose , so the total energy need to run the microwave for the state time would be .1 kWh , or about one-third a much total energy , or about 70 percent less , close to the EPA estimate cite above . Got a question ? Ask Mr. Green ! -- illustration by Little Friends of Printmaking Posted by Bob Schildgen at 04:46:41 PM in Ask Mr. Green , Food and Drink Technorati Tags : American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy , Btu , burner , cook , efficiency , energy , EPA , gas , kWh , microwave , stove , USDA TrackBack TrackBack URL for this entry : http : //www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451b96069e20177444d6cc7970d Listed below be link to weblogs that reference Microwave or Stove : Whats More Efficient ? : User comment or posting reflect the opinion of the responsible contributor only , and do not reflect the viewpoint of the Sierra Club . The Sierra Club do not endorse or guarantee the accuracy of any posting . The Sierra Club accept no obligation to review every posting , but reserve the right ( but not the obligation ) to delete posting that may be consider offensive , illegal or inappropriate . Up to Top 