Power company and carbon tax Skip to navigation Skip to content Help use this website - Accessibility statement JavaScript disable . Please enable JavaScript to use My News , My Clippings , My Comments and user setting . My News My Clippings My Comments My Benefits Today 's Paper Subscribe Log in Register Personalise your news , save article to read late and customise setting If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . If you have trouble access our login form below , you can go to our login page . The Sydney Morning Herald Entertainment Oscars 2015 Movies TV & Radio TV Guide Music Art Stage Books Sydney Festival Box Office Events Follow u You be here : Home Entertainment Search smh : Search in : Entertainment smh.com.au Web Entertainment Power company and carbon tax Entertainment Date September 19 , 2014 ( 0 ) Read late Monica Dux Twitter Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Illustration : Robin Cowcher It 's rare indeed to open a letter from a power company and find that it contain good news , yet that 's exactly the happy surprise that most of u have experience these past few week . The nice lady from my electricity retailer write to me personally to let me know that , thanks to the repeal of the carbon tax , I would now be save a whopping 7 per cent on my power bill . Damn those smelly greenies and their fellow traveller for the pain they have inflict on ordinary Australian household ! I immediately race out and tell the kid that Christmas be back on , thanks to good old Uncle Abbott , with a bit of help from Big Clive and that guy who threw the kangaroo poo . Unfortunately , it 's all utter nonsense . Not the stuff about Australian household be under financial pressure , for that much be certainly true . ( OK , the bit about cancel Christmas be a slight exaggeration , but it 's good to keep the kid on their toe . ) But the suggestion that electricity price increase have be primarily cause by the carbon tax be at best a distortion , at bad an outright lie . Yet the average electricity bill for Australian household have double in recent year , even though , on average , we 're actually use less power . So why the hike ? Advertisement In fact , the big contribute factor have be rorting by electricity network company . In a nutshell , the fact be as follow : in recent year these company have spend massive sum of money on upgrade their infrastructure , thing like power line and pole . These upgrade be often unnecessary , and their estimate cost be frequently inflate , but the industry regulator allow the network to make large profit by pass those cost on to electricity retailer , who in turn hand them on to customer . As investigative reporter Jess Hill recently write in The Monthly magazine , this over-investment might well be one of `` the great rorts in Australia 's history '' , yet most of u remain oblivious . And , instead of send u friendly letter itemise exactly how much of our ballooning power bill be due to this monumental rip-off , electricity retailer have instead send u reassure missive , promise small , post-carbon price saving . So most of u simply accept the drivel , believe that our soaring power bill be cause by Juliar 's Big Fat New Tax . Of course , the Abbott government have n't just get rid of the carbon tax , they 've also go in to bat for coal , do everything they can to boost the industry 's fortune , short of cover their body in coal dust , then dance around sing the I Love Coal song . Yet Abbott 's enthusiasm for the black stuff be not share by the population at large . Indeed , poll have consistently show that the vast majority of Australians support renewable energy , and that many of u would willingly pay a bit more for electricity that be generate sustainably . And this be the real tragedy of the great electricity rort ; that it create unnecessarily large price increase , which be then use by Abbott and his climate-change-denying side-kicks to kill off a tax that would have promote a result favour by most people . As if that 's not bad enough , we have little choice but to continue financially support the very company that be responsible for this catastrophe . In our consumer society , we assume that if we 're not happy with a product , then we can vote with our wallet , and buy from the competitor instead . But when it come to power , we have few real alternative . All electricity retailer have be force to hand on their network cost , so switch retailer wo n't shield you from the rort . Here in Victoria , choice be further restrict by the fact that the vast majority of our electricity be generate by burning coal . You may not like it , but you be inevitably support that filthy , unsustainable industry every time you turn on a light . Going `` off the grid '' be a possibility , but instal enough solar panel to achieve this be not always practical , and be unaffordable for many . Perhaps one could instead emulate the couple in that old BBC sitcom The Good Life , who convert their suburban backyard into a farm , then generate their own electricity use the methane from all the animal poo . Given that my family keep only a single smallish cat , I doubt that we will ever produce enough raw material to make such a scheme viable , unless perhaps they could hook u up to Parliament House . Now there 's a renewable source of BS if ever I 've see one . TWITTER @ MONICADUX Twitter Pin It submit to reddit Email article Print Advertisement Most popular 1 Eurovision 2015 : Twitter reacts to Guy Sebastian ... Contains : 2 Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia ... Contains : total comment 1 3 My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 20 recap : Sheri and ... Contains : total comment 10 4 How Oscar winner Kevin Spacey , Halle Berry and ... Contains : 5 Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Contains : total comment 20 Latest movie That Sugar Film review : Powerful ... Seventh Son Rating : 0.5 out of 5 star National Gallery Rating : 4.5 out of 5 star Lucky Them review : Toni Collette ... Browse movie Browse movie Title : Genre : Any Genre Action/Adventure Animation Biopic Childrens Classics Comedy Comedy-Drama Crime Cult Documentary Drama Fantasy Horror Indie/Foreign Music/Musical Mystery Romantic Comedy Romance Sci-Fi Sport TV Series Thriller War Western OFLC Rating : Any OFLC Rating G PG M MA 15+ R 18+ Yet to be classify or browse ... Movies Music TV Art Stage Restaurants Bars Book Featured advertiser Find Movie Session Times Title Subject Movie session search Suburb or postcode Cinema Select a cinema Movie Session time Advertisement Life & Style How to change your bad eating habit Smh.com.au Horoscopes Fashion Beauty An unlikely match in Constellations Jobs Find your perfect job today Adzuna.com.au What be Adzuna ? Where be all the job ? Jobs blog Real Estate Inside Michael Clarke 's home Domain.com.au Buy real estate How much be my house worth ? FREE Property Newsletter Holiday Rentals Over 40,000 amaze holiday home across Australia Stayz.com.au Sydney holiday home Melbourne holiday home Gold Coast holiday home Essential Kids Check out this `` smart girl '' in her high school photo Essentialkids.com.au Lunchbox ideas & recipe Free kid ' activity and worksheet Family recipe finder Compare and Save Skip to : Best Deals Mobile Broadband Home Loans Credit Cards Low Rate Cards Rewards Cards Savings Accts Money Deals Loans Check out today 's best deal 0 % p.a . for 14 Months Plus no annual fee for the life of the card Find Out More Low Variable Rates Discover low variable home loan rate from 4.25 % More Info 60,000 Bonus Points Plus 0 % on balance transfer for 6 month Find Out More iPhone 6 We compare all carrier and deal Compare Deals Deals for 2015 Switching network or stay , we compare it Compare Deals Readers ' most view Most view article on Brisbane Times Top 5 Entertainment article Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia at song contest Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Game of Thrones season 5 : HBO could slash Foxtel 's throat thanks to Apple TV My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 21 recap : Jane , Emma and the night of the misleading pork Eurovision 2015 : Let 's hope Europe 's attitude to Guy Sebastian have improve since 2003 Most view article on The Sydney Morning Herald Top 5 Entertainment article Eurovision 2015 : Twitter reacts to Guy Sebastian represent Australia in song contest Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia at song contest My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 20 recap : Sheri and Emilie inspire sour face How Oscar winner Kevin Spacey , Halle Berry and Adrien Brody score 0 per cent on Rotten Tomatoes Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Most view article on The Age Top 5 Entertainment article Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia at song contest How Oscar winner Kevin Spacey , Halle Berry and Adrien Brody score 0 per cent on Rotten Tomatoes My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 21 recap : Jane , Emma and the night of the misleading pork Eurovision 2015 : Twitter reacts to Guy Sebastian represent Australia in song contest Most view article on Canberra Times Top 5 Entertainment article Billy Zane eye House of Cards-style TV series , art exhibition in Canberra a Blue World Order wrap film Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia at song contest Eurovision 2015 : Twitter reacts to Guy Sebastian represent Australia in song contest My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 20 recap : Sheri and Emilie inspire sour face Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Most view article on WA Today Top 5 Entertainment article Celebrity chef lock in for Perth foodie festival Eurovision 2015 : Twitter reacts to Guy Sebastian represent Australia in song contest Has Nickelback make bad song , video of all time ? Eurovision 2015 : Guy Sebastian to represent Australia at song contest My Kitchen Rules 2015 episode 20 recap : Sheri and Emilie inspire sour face SMH Home NSW Federal Politics World National Environment Business Digital Life Entertainment Life & Style Travel Cars Exec Style Sport Weather Sydney Morning Herald Sitemap About Us Contact Us Support Advertise with Us AM Today Last 8 day Text Version Site Accessibility Guide Connect Mobile Site SMH for iPad Today 's Paper RSS Facebook Twitter Google+ Instagram Pinterest Products & Services Subscribe Manage My Subscription My Benefits Digital Subscription FAQs Good Food Guide SMH Shop Newsletters Classifieds Place an Ad Accommodation Cars Dating Jobs Property Price Data Real Estate Buy and Sell Tributes Celebrations Special Reports Fairfax Media Member Centre Conditions of Use Privacy Policy News Store Archive Photo Sales Purchase Front Pages Fairfax Syndication Fairfax Events Fairfax Careers Press Council Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age Adzuna Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone TheVine Our Partners Accessories Business Hair salon Horse Lawyers Mechanics Credit Cards Nursery Wedding Wine Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media 11:00AM Friday Mar 06 , 2015 28,312 online now Do you know more about a story ? contact u Close Provide detail information , include contact detail ( if relevant ) Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Newsletters Fairfax Media Network More Close News & Weather smh.com.au theage.com.au brisbanetimes.com.au canberratimes.com.au watoday.com.au weatherzone.com.au Business & Finance businessday.com.au brw.com.au afr.com afrmagazine.com.au afrsmartinvestor.com.au Lifestyle life & style dailylife.com.au thevine.com.au essentialbaby.com.au essentialkids.com.au findababysitter.com.au goodfood.com.au Classifieds domain.com.au drive.com.au adzuna.com.au rsvp.com.au stayz.com.au Member benefit Advertise with u Newsletters Full list of site About Fairfax Media Privacy Terms & Conditions 