REBATES & INCENTIVES - ENERGY SAVINGS - HOME ENERGY CONNECTION Call or Click Today To Schedule Your Assessment ! ( 702 ) 451-8630 Home Our Services Training About Us Energy Savings FAQ Contact Us Home > Energy Savings > Rebates & Incentives Air Conditioning mPowered Home Energy Management : Eligible customer ( must have broadband Internet access and central A/C ) will receive an mPowered intelligent thermostat enable with energy optimization service at no charge . The new thermostat be instal with a gateway device that connect to your router and communicate with the energy optimization service over the Internet . Once the mPowered system be instal , youll have access to the online portal to set-up customize schedule and temperature setting . You can easily manage preference and view saving report from your computer or smart-phone . Click here for more information CheckMe ! Plus AC Program : The CheckMe ! Plus Air Conditioning program be currently be redesign to good serve NV Energy customer and plan to launch a new and excite high efficiency air condition program in late spring 2015 . Please check back then . Click here for more information Appliances Refrigerator Recycling : Your old refrigerator us up to four time the electricity of a new one . So , why not recycle it ? You could save up to $ 100 a year on your utility bill . Well even haul it away FREE of charge and give you a $ 50 incentive . Click here for more detail Southwest Gas Special Offers from Appliance Dealers & Contractors : Find rebate on select appliance ( range , oven , cooktops , fireplace insert . Click for detail Pool Pump Rebates Pool Pump Rebates : To help you save energy -- while lowering your monthly energy bill -- NV Energy be offer an instant point-of-sale rebate of $ 200 on qualifying variable speed pool pump . The rebate program be available through numerous swimming pool retailer , builder and independent pool professional in Southern Nevada . To get start , visit any of the participate program partner for an estimate on saving and the operational benefit a variable speed pump can add to your year-round pool experience . Energy efficient variable speed pool pump can easily replace single or dual speed pump result in : Savings between 30 % to 80 % of monthly pool energy cost . Reduction of operating noise . These pump run cooler and quieter . Improving water quality . At slow speed filter be more effective . Totally automatic ( hands-free ) operation . Solar Water Heating Solar water heater : Solar hot water system can be a cost-effective way to generate hot water for your home or business . They can be use in any climate , and the fuel they use , ( the sun ) be free . Solar water heating system include storage tank and solar collector . Most solar water heater require a well-insulated storage tank . Solar storage tank have an additional outlet and inlet connect to and from the collector . In two-tank system , the solar water heater preheats water before it enter the conventional water heater . In one-tank system , the back-up heater be combine with the solar storage in one tank . Click here for more detail on Southwest Gas ' program NV Energy 's solar water incentive : The NV Energy Solar Hot Water Program offer incentive to customer who install eligible solar water heating system . Using the sun energy to heat water will save you energy , low your hot water bill , and help protect the environment . Click here for more information about Nevada Energy 's Solar Water Incentive Solar Generations Solar , Wind or Hydro Generation : Install a solar PV , wind or hydro energy system and low your monthly power bill by generating your own electricity . Receive a one-time installation rebate from NV Energy . ** Customers across Nevada can save money and help protect the environment when participate in Renewable Generations incentive program . Note : each generation solution may not work for your location . **Customer must apply for and receive approval for an installation rebate prior to installing a renewable energy system . Click here for more detail Southwest Gas Rebates Nevada residential Energy-Efficient Consumer Products Rebate Program . Get rebate for low flow showerhead , lavatory faucet , dryer , tankless water heater , etc . Water Savings Pool Covers : A pool cover can help save 10,000 to 15,000 gallon of water each year by reducing evaporation . Pool cover also limit windblown debris and conserve energy . The pool cover coupon value be : $ 50 or 50 percent off the purchase price of a pool cover , whichever be less or $ 200 or 50 percent off the purchase of a permanent , mechanical pool cove Get pool cover coupon Smart Irrigation Controller Rebate : Save even more money on landscape irrigation with the purchase of a smart irrigation controller . Smart irrigation controller automatically adjust their watering schedule accord to the weather , reduce water use and your water bill . In addition , SNWA offer an instant rebate of up to $ 200 . The coupon value be : $ 200 or 50 percent off the purchase price of a qualifying product , whichever be less Get smart irrigation controller coupon Water Smart Landscapes Rebate : The Water Smart Landscapes Rebate help property owner convert water-thirsty grass to desert landscaping , a lush yet water-efficient landscape . SNWA will rebate customer $ 1.50 per square foot of grass remove and replace with desert landscape up to the first 5,000 square foot convert per property , per year . Beyond the first 5,000 foot , SNWA will provide a rebate of $ 1 per square foot . Apply online or call 258-SAVE for a print application . You also can request an information packet on the program . EnergyFit Nevada EnergyFit Nevada : Participants in the EnergyFit Nevada program will be assist in receiving an energy assessment from an energy assessment professional and will be assist in finding a certified contractor to make the recommended upgrade . 2014 Federal Tax Credits for Consumer Energy Efficiency Biomass Stoves Heating , Ventilating , Air Conditioning ( HVAC ) Advanced Main Circulating Fan Air Source Heat Pumps Central Air Conditioning ( CAC ) Natural Gas , Propane or Oil Furnace Gas , Propane or Hot Water Boiler Insulation Roofs ( Metal & Asphalt ) Water Heaters ( non-solar ) Windows & Doors Tax Credit : 10 % of cost up to $ 500 or a specific amount from $ 50 - $ 300 Expires : December 31 , 2014 Details : Must be an exist home & your principal residence . New construction and rental do not qualify . Geothermal Heat Pumps Small Wind Turbines ( Residential ) Solar Energy Systems Tax Credit : 30 % of cost with no upper limit Expires : December 31 , 2016 Details : Existing home & new construction qualify . Both principal residence and second home qualify . Rentals do not qualify Fuel Cells ( Residential Fuel Cell and Microturbine System ) Tax Credit : Credit Details : 30 % of the cost , up to $ 500 per .5 kW of power capacity Expires : December 31 , 2016 Details : Existing home & new construction qualify . Must be your principal residence . Rentals and second home do not qualify . What be include in the 2014 Federal Tax Credit ? How do I apply for my Federal Tax Credit ? Click here to view the Dept . of Energys Energy Savings Booklet Click here for more Energy Saving Tips Database of State Incentives for Renewable and Efficiency ( DSIREUSA ) Videos Click here for no or low cost energy saving tip Link Us on LinkedIn Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Receive Useful Monthly Tips & Info - Sign Up ! Sign Up ! * indicates require Email Address * First Name Last Name Email Format html text mobile 