Phone Upgrade Anytime | Just Upgrade My Phone | JUMP ! | T-Mobile CONSUMER BUSINESS Close Browser cooky must be enable for online order . How to enable cooky Shop Plans Coverage Why T-Mobile Search Search Search Store Locator 0 Cart My T-Mobile More Phones Tablets & Devices Accessories Deals Shop all phone Bring your own phone Featured phone Samsung Galaxy S5 LG G3 Sony Xperia Z3 Shop all tablet & internet device Bring your own tablet Featured device Apple iPad Air 2 Samsung Gear S Samsung Galaxy Tab S Shop all accessory Most popular category Chargers Cases Accessory Bundles Shop all phone deal Shop all tablet and device deal Shop all accessory deal Shop all bundle deal Web-only offer Save $ 48 on the ZTE ZMAX Get this 5.7-inch smartphone at a very affordable price . Shop now Limited-time offer ; subject to change . Web-only offer . New line on qualg rate plan reqd . Plans Individual plan Family plan Mobile Internet plan Prepaid plan Get unlimited 4G LTE data for the whole family . With T-Mobile , you can get the freedom of Americas only unlimited 4G LTE family plan , all at our best price ever . Get start Check coverage CHECK COVERAGE We 're sorry , no address be find . Please retry . Invalid Country View full coverage map Designed Data Strong See the difference Introducing Wi-Fi unleash Call and text with Wi-Fi Unlimited data virtually anywhere Explore destination Why T-Mobile Network Simple Choice Plan Wi-Fi Calling Music Freedom Contract Freedom JUMP ! Introducing Data Stash : do n't lose what you do n't use . Other carrier take your unused data . Only T-Mobile roll it forward into the next month . Learn about Data Stash Check Your Coverage T-Mobile Test Drive Designed Data Strong Get the Data Strong network With T-Mobile , youll experience more data capacity than any other major national carrier . And only T-Mobile offer unlimited 4G LTE data on the fast nationwide 4G LTE network . Learn more Fastest LTE Network : Based on download speed . Capacity Claim Basis : congestion experience ; per customer . Find closest store Find Stores Your ZIP code Sorry . We be not able to find any T-Mobile store near that ZIP code . Invalid Country Please enter a city , state , or zip code . Set this location a the default one Set this location a the default one This have be set a your location . Additional location Search Search Login Back to My Account Sign up Pay my bill Add a new line Upgrade my phone Change plan or service Get support Store Locator My T-Mobile Pay my bill Add a new line Upgrade my phone Change plan or service Get support Phones Tablets & Devices Accessories Deals Bring Your Own Phone Plans Why T-Mobile Network Coverage Consumer Business 0 Shop Plans COVERAGE Why-T-Mobile Contact Small business Rep Contact Enterprise rep New customer support Existing customer support Support New customer 1-877-334-7144 Existing customer 1-877-347-2127 MY T-MOBILE For 1-5 line business owner Login SIGN UP Store locator Why T-Mobile 6+ line business owner , call 000-000-0000 Coverage Phones Tablets & device Bring your own device Contact a rep The late phone keep your business one step ahead . Our Simple Choice for Business plan mean everyone in your company can get their hand on the technology they want , when they want it . Learn more Android iOS Windows Plans Plans overview Single line plan Multi-line plan Mobile internet plan Choosing the best business plan be simple T-Mobile Simple Choice for Business plan make choose a carrier easy . You get the coverage you want on the fast nationwide 4G LTE network , without the contract , limit or overage . Learn more We see you 're use an older browser that we no longer support . We suggest upgrade to a new version so that you can view the complete website . FireFox Chrome Internet Explorer Close Weve upgrade upgrade . Two year be too long to wait to upgrade your device . Thats why we offer JUMP ! , a revolutionary upgrade program only from T-Mobile . Upgrade your phone or tablet when the next hot device come out or simply when youre ready for something new . Theres no wait to upgrade or limit on how many time you can upgrade . When youre ready to upgrade , simply trade in your eligible device and receive credit for all remain device payment , up to half of it original cost . You be responsible for any remain device payment at the time of upgrade . Total peace of mind know that you can replace virtually any phone or tablet thats be damage or lose through our premium device protection and mobile security feature , include in JUMP ! Heres how JUMP ! work 1 . Buy a phone or tablet , get a Simple Choice plan , and finance your device through T-Mobile . 2 . Enroll in JUMP ! for $ 10/mo . when you buy your new device . 3 . Upgrade anytime you want . Simply trade in your eligible device and T-Mobile will cover your remain device payment up to half of your device cost . And only with JUMP ! , youre protect if your device be lose , damage , or steal with the include Premium Handset Protection and Lookout Mobile Security . ( Deductible may apply ; see FAQ below . ) Shop Phones Shop Tablets Already a T-Mobile customer ? Already have JUMP ! and ready to upgrade ? Find a store . T-Mobile offer the best upgrade in wireless . Period . T-Mobile end the era of wait two year for an upgrade . We get rid of the long wait , unfair fee , and restrictive annual service contract . With JUMP ! , you can upgrade to the phone and tablet you want at a great price and use them on the fast nationwide 4G LTE network* . Plus , only JUMP ! offer peace of mind that your device be protect against loss or damage with Premium Handset Protection and Lookout Mobile Security . *Based on download speed . JUMP ! FAQ How do JUMP ! work ? JUMP ! TM offer you freedom to upgrade your device when you want , not when youre tell . Whenever youre ready to upgrade , simply trade in your eligible device and T-Mobile will pay off your remain device payment , up to half of your device cost . Then purchase your new device on a new Equipment Installment Plan ( EIP ) . JUMP ! be also the only upgrade program from a major national carrier to offer you virtually complete protection for your device investment . Device protection and mobile security be include , for ultimate peace of mind . No more worry about mechanical breakdown , accidental damage , loss , or theft . Youre cover with JUMP ! . What be the total cost of JUMP ! ? JUMP ! be $ 10 per month per device ( plus tax & fee ) , add to your monthly service and EIP cost . JUMP ! include Premium Handset Protection so youre cover against accidental damage , mechanical breakdown , loss and theft , a well a Lookout Mobile Security Premium . Standalone Premium Handset Protection purchase from T-Mobile without JUMP ! would cost $ 8 per month and Lookout Mobile Security Premium would cost an additional $ 4 per month . When you upgrade or buy a new device on EIP , you also be subject to any down payment require . The monthly $ 10 JUMP ! fee appear beginning with your first bill . Please note that if the device you wish to trade in be lose , steal , or break , you first will need to make a PHP claim and pay any necessary deductible or process fee before redeem your JUMP ! upgrade . Do I have to be on a specific rate plan to enroll in JUMP ! ? Any customer on a qualifying Simple Choice rate plan , who finance a new phone or tablet within 14 day of purchase can enroll in JUMP ! If youre an exist customer with other type of Value Plans you also may be eligible . Login to my.t-mobile.com for more detail . How do JUMP ! work for tablet ? JUMP ! be available for finance tablet and work the same a it do for handset . Well pay for your remain device payment , up to half of your original tablet cost when you trade in your eligible tablet . Do I need to have a specific phone or tablet to qualify for JUMP ! ? Any device finance through EIP be eligible for JUMP ! . See www.T-Mobile.com for detail . Am I limit to specific type of device when I upgrade ? You may upgrade to any device thats finance through EIP . However , you may not upgrade from a phone to a tablet or vise-versa . Do I have to trade in my old phone or tablet in order to upgrade through the JUMP ! program ? Yes , if enrol in JUMP ! , you must trade in the same phone or tablet that you finance through EIP , and it must pass a three-point inspection : 1 ) power on , 2 ) no cracked screen , and 3 ) no water damage . Should you experience any issue that would cause the device to fail initial inspection , you simply file a PHP claim and pay the deductible or any processing fee to replace it before redeem a JUMP ! upgrade . During the trade in , the IMEI number on the phone must match the IMEI number on the JUMP ! account to be eligible . What happens if I lose my phone or tablet or if it get damage before I can trade it in ? Or what if it doesnt pas the 3-point inspection ? JUMP ! include Premium Handset Protection ( PHP ) , which cover accidental damage , mechanical breakdown , loss , and theft , and provide a replacement phone up to two time in twelve month after the deductible or any processing fee be pay . If a device be damage and do not pass the 3-point inspection at trade in , you must file a claim for the damaged device through PHP and pay the deductible or any processing fee to replace it before a trade-in for an upgrade can be initiate . However , this can be handle in one visit to a participating T-Mobile store . If you want to file a PHP claim but not process an upgrade , you can call the vendor directly without a store visit . How often can I JUMP ! ? There be no limitation on how many time you can upgrade with JUMP ! . We want you to pick the frequency thats right for you . When youre ready , trade in your eligible device and T-Mobile will cover your remain device payment up to half of your device cost . How quickly after a device purchase can I upgrade ? There be no wait period on when you can upgrade with JUMP ! . When you be ready to upgrade , trade in your eligible device and T-Mobile will pay off your remain device payment , up to half of your original cost . Any remain EIP balance must be pay at the time of upgrade . When I originally sign up for JUMP ! , I be told I have to wait to upgrade and also have a limit on how frequently I could upgrade in a year . What happen ? Customers have speak , and weve listen . Weve simplify the original program by removing these limitation to truly give customer control over when to upgrade . Unlimited upgrade with no wait period mean ultimate freedom . Im a current JUMP ! customer . How can I take advantage of this new program ? Customers who add JUMP ! before 02/23/2014 will be subject to the exist term of the program , however , once you upgrade to a new device , you may migrate to the new program at no additional cost . Are prepay phone and tablet eligible for JUMP ! ? No , prepay device be not finance on EIP , so they be not eligible . I usually upgrade my phone every couple of year . Is JUMP ! right for me ? JUMP ! be design to give you full control of your upgrade frequency a well a ultimate peace of mind when it come to your device . If youd like to fully protect your device investment a well a have the flexibility to affordably get one of our new device release in the future , JUMP ! be for you . How be JUMP ! different from the other carrier ' upgrade program ? JUMP ! be the only comprehensive program among the major national carrier that protect a customer phone investment from virtually any eventuality include obsolescence . JUMP ! include device protection and mobile security feature that other carrier may charge separately for , so you get what you want device peace of mind and the ability to upgrade when you want , not when youre tell . How do the JUMP ! program reward me for stay with T-Mobile ? Not only do you get peace of mind with device protection and mobile security , you also get the benefit of T-Mobile paying off the remain payment of your current device when you trade it in , up to half of your device cost . Upgrade to our late and great device , any time you want , a often a you want . Only T-Mobile offer this kind of comprehensive , all-in-one device program . What if I change my mind and dont want JUMP ! anymore ? You can remove the JUMP ! feature any time , but you can only add it within 14 day of a new device purchase finance on EIP . Still have question ? Call 1-800-T-MOBILE : 1-800-866-2453 View 13 more question Show few question Still have question ? Call 1-800-T-MOBILE : 1-800-866-2453 Deductible or process fee will apply if traded-in device be lost/stolen , not in good working order , do not power on , or have liquid damage or break screen ; up to two Premium Handset Protection claim in a 12 month period . Limited time offer ; subject to change . Qualifying service plan with finance device require . Pay 50 % of your device cost to be eligible for upgrade . Trade-in of an eligible device require . Eligible device must be in good working order . JUMP ! must be add within 14 day of a qualify device purchase . Device pricing may vary base on approve credit . Offer may not be available in all location . NY resident must use JUMP ! benefit prior to completing 2 insurance claim in 12 month . JUMP ! upgrade from T-Mobile ; trade-in benefit through CWork Solutions , LP . Program fee pay to CWork . No separate insurance fee , except in NY . Contact Us Contact information Check order status View return policy Get a rebate Find a store Trade in program Support Support home Device support Questions about your bill Plans & service Activate your Prepaid phone or device Refill your Prepaid account International rate T-Mobile Business Bring your business up to speed with 4G innovation , a powerful network , and flexible plan . 2002-2015 T-MOBILE USA , INC . Espaol ABOUT INVESTOR RELATIONS PRESS JOBS DEUTSCHE TELEKOM PUERTO RICO PRIVACY POLICY INTEREST-BASED ADS PRIVACY & SECURITY RESOURCES CONSUMER INFORMATION PUBLIC SAFETY/911 TERMS & CONDITIONS TERMS OF USE ACCESSIBILITY OPEN INTERNET CUSTOMER SUPPORT Existing Customer Support : 1-877-347-2127 Find a Store Account Services ADVANTAGE PROGRAM Check Eligibility SOLUTIONS & RESOURCES Mobile Device Management ( MDM ) Machine-to-Machine ( M2M ) Wi-Fi Calling Government Programs eRate Program PARTNERS Resellers Espaol 2002-2014 T-MOBILE USA , INC . ABOUT INVESTOR RELATIONS PRESS JOBS DEUTSCHE TELEKOM PUERTO RICO PRIVACY POLICY PRIVACY RESOURCES CONSUMER INFORMATION 