Electricity Guide : FAQs and Glossary Help 1-800-426-4840 Call Monday through Sunday , 4 AM to 11 PM Pacific Time REI Member Tools Find your member number or dividend balance . Live Help More Ways to Contact Us Online Help and FAQs Order Status Return Policy Shipping Info Wish List Gift Registry Classes & Events Store Locator Checkout Hello Welcome to REI ! Log In or Register | Log Out Not User ? SHOP REI SHOP REI OUTLET TRAVEL WITH REI LEARN BLOG MEMBERSHIP STEWARDSHIP Expert Advice Classes and Events Outdoor Videos Family Adventure Program Screen Name Required A screen name be require for sharing content on REI . Click here to create a screen name before continue . Set screen name All Camping Articles All Hiking Articles Backpacking Hiking All Climbing Articles Mountaineering Ice Climbing Rock Climbing All Cycling Articles Mountain Road Touring All Family Articles All Fitness Articles Running Triathlon Cross-Training All Paddling Articles Canoeing Kayaking All Snowsports Articles Downhilll Skiing Snowshoeing Snowboarding All Travel Articles All Clothing Articles facebook twitter google+ pinterest stumbleupon Learn at REI > Expert Advice > Electricity Guide : FAQs and Glossary Electricity Guide : FAQs and Glossary Electricity can be a baffling subject for many traveler . The REI Electricity Guide for Travelers article explain the basic , but here be also some quick answer you may find helpful : Q : Will my electrical and electronic appliance work in Country X ? A : Yes , provide you have the appropriate adapter plug to fit the power outlet in your destination country , and your device be rat for the same voltage a the power supply in that country . If the voltage be different , you will need a voltage converter or transformer . Note : Some foreign hotel have circuit provide approximately 120 volt , which allow guest to use electric shaver and other low-wattage U.S. appliance . These be label a such in the hotel . Q : How do I find out what I need to take ? A : First , read the power supply label on your device to determine the voltage rating . Then find out what the power supply voltage be at your destination . See our Voltage and Outlets by Country chart ( or consult your travel guidebook ) to find this information . If your device and the power supply use the same voltage , you only need an adapter plug . If it be different , you will also need a voltage converter or transformer . Q : What type of adapter plug do I need ? A : Adapter plug come in many configuration , but there be 4 common type that work for many country . See the list of country below or our Electricity Guide for Travelers article to find the correct adapter plug type for your destination . Q : When do I need a voltage converter or transformer ? A : One or the other be need only if your destination country 's power supply have a voltage rating that be outside the range of your device . For these single-voltage device , youll need a converter be for use with `` electrical '' device and a transformer for use with `` electronic '' device ( see Glossary ) . You wo n't need either if your device be rat dual or multi voltage . Adapter plug be available a a single plug type or a a multi-nation adapter plug which feature the common plug type , include a USB outlet for some electronic device . Shop REIs selection of converter and adapter . Glossary : Electrical Terms Adapter plug : This change the prong on your device 's plug into a configuration that fit into the power outlet at your destination . An adapter plug do not convert electricity . Adapter plug can be use with voltage converter , transformer and dual- or multi-voltage device , if need . They be label by plug type and/or country of use . They be sell a single plug for individual country , in travel set of the most common plug type or a a universal plug with multiple plug type . Adapter plug be usually ungrounded . See Grounded for more plug information . Tip : It 's easy to unintentionally leave your adapter plug behind when you pull your power lead out of the outlet . Consider using a dedicate adapter plug per device and tape it onto your plug . AC adapter : This be the black box that convert AC ( alternating current ) come out of the wall outlet to the DC ( direct current ) power that be require to operate your device . This adapter come with your device ( such a a laptop computer or cell phone charger ) . Do n't leave home without it . For some device , a USB cable be use to connect the to AC adapter to the device , but you still need the AC adapter to regulate the power supply . AC : Refers to alternate current , the most common type of power supply . This power be generate by a utility company and send along cable to power outlet . DC : Refers to direct current , the type of power supply require by an electronic device . The output information on the device 's power supply label will tell you what it run on . Example : OUTPUT DC 1.2V 2.3A This be usually important only if you need to replace a lost AC adapter . In this case , a replacement AC adapter must match the manufacturer 's recommendation for your device . Converter : See voltage converter . Electrical device : These use heating element or mechanical motor . Examples include hair dryer , travel iron , water heater , shaver and toothbrush . If the device 's voltage rating be not compatible with the power supply in your destination country , it can be use with either a converter or transformer with the correct wattage range for short period of time ( under 2 hour ) . Electronic device : These operate with electronic motor , circuit or chip . Examples include mobile device , computer , radio and battery charger . If the device 's voltage rating be not compatible with the power supply in your destination country , it should be use ONLY with a transformer of the correct wattage range for short period of time ( under 3 hour ) . Frequency : Also call cycle , this be the speed at which electric current alternate ( express in Hertz = cycle per second ) . In the USA and Canada , the AC power supply be 60Hz . In many other country , it be 50Hz . This be not a problem for most device , but some with electric timer in them ( such a clock ) may have their accuracy affect . Converters and transformer do not adjust frequency . Many modern portable device be design to accommodate a range of frequency ; the power label on such device will say 50-60Hz . Grounded : This relate to the power outlet and plug type . A ground plug will have 3 prong ( with some variation possible ) , whereas an ungrounded plug will have 2 prong . Most portable device be ungrounded . You can use a ground plug with an ungrounded adapter plug . Is this a concern ? Potentially , but it be unlikely for occasional short-term use of a device . You can also use an ungrounded plug in a grounded socket . Consult your device 's instruction manual for further information . Outlet : This refers to the wall outlet or power strip that you plug into ( also call a power socket ) . The plug pin configuration ( number , shape and orientation ) differs from country to country . Typically you will need an adapter plug ( single country or universal ) to enable you to plug into an outlet in another country . Countries in the same region ( e.g. , Europe ) often share a common plug type . Socket : Synonymous with outlet in some country , but it more correctly refers to the connection point for a light bulb . Transformer : A device for short or long-term use with single-voltage electronic appliance . Transformers be design to either step down power from , for example , 230V to 115V , or to step up power from 115V to 230V . If you have a single-voltage North American appliance , it will most likely be 115V or 110V to 125V . If you intend to use it in a country with a 230V power supply , you will need a step-down transformer , or something be go to burn out . The wattage rating of a transformer must always be large than the wattage rating of the appliance to be plug into it . Transformers be generally large , heavy and more expensive than voltage converter . Note : Travelers generally do not need a transformer , a the AC adapter for most electronic device be dual or multi-voltage , negate the need for a separate transformer . Check the power information label on your device to confirm this . Voltage : This can refer either to the voltage rating of the power supply in your destination country or to the power rating of your device . To find the former , refer to the Power and Outlet Types by Country chart . To find the latter , look for the device 's power supply information . This may be a label affix directly to the back of the device , on the AC transformer box along the power lead or mold into the plastic on the plug . It be often in very small print . Domestic power supply in North America be typically AC 115V . In most other country the voltage will be in the range of AC 220V 240V . The rat input for electrical or electronic device will be single , dual or multi . Devices make for domestic use ( not international use ) will often be rat a single voltage ( e.g. , kitchen appliance ) . Single voltage would read 120V . Household kitchen appliance like coffee maker , toaster and blender be typically single voltage . This be usually not the sort of thing you be go to take on a trip . Dual voltage would read 110V/220V , and the device may have a switch to toggle between the 2 voltage input . This be common on hair dryer . Multi-voltage would read 100 240V . This be common on battery charger and AC transformer for many modern portable device like laptop computer . A device with a single voltage input will need a voltage converter or transformer to be use in a location with a non-corresponding power supply voltage , a well a an adapter plug . Tip : If use a dual-voltage device in another country and it have a manual switch to change voltage input , be sure to use it or you be likely to damage your device . Remember to change it back when you return home ! Voltage converter : The little black box that go between the power outlet and your device . It be for use with electrical appliance only and should not be use with electronic device . You only need a voltage converter if your electric device be rat as single voltage ( e.g. , 120V ) and this be different from the voltage supply in your destination country . If so , you also need to know the wattage requirement of your device and use a converter that be appropriate . Voltage converter may be low wattage only or dual wattage ( low and high ) . A battery charger have a low-watt requirement , whereas a hair dyer have a high-watt requirement . Note : Some converter also act a a transformer for electronic device that be rat at less than 50 watt . Glossary : Outlet Types Below be a list of outlet type . If you dont see your destination country mention , check the outlet type in our separate Voltage and Outlet Types by Country chart . Use Adaptor Plug E108 from REI or a universal kit . This ungrounded plug with 2 flat parallel prong be standard in North and Central America . Though similar , the Japanese plug have 2 identical flat prong , whereas the USA plug have 1 prong which be slightly large . Therefore , USA plug do not often work in Japanese outlet . Use Adaptor Plug E108 from REI , or a universal kit . Although this plug be also standard in Japan , it be less frequently used than in North America . An ungrounded version of this plug be commonly use in Central America and part of South America . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . This 2-wire plug be ungrounded and have 2 round prong . It be popularly know a the Europlug . This be probably the most widely used international plug . The plug be generally limit for use in application that require 2.5 amp or less . Since type C outlet be ungrounded , they be currently be phase out in many country and replace by type E , F , J , K or L . A type C plug fit perfectly into a type E , F , J , K or L outlet . Although type D be now almost exclusively use in India , Sri Lanka , Nepal and Namibia , it can still occasionally be find in hotel in the UK and Ireland . Do not attempt to connect anything to a round-pin outlet find in the UK or Ireland . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . France , Belgium and some other country have standardize an outlet which be different from the type F outlet that be standard in other continental European country . A type C plug fit perfectly into a type E outlet . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . Type F , commonly call the Schuko plug , be similar to type C except that it be round and have the addition of 2 ground clip on the side of the plug . A type C plug fit perfectly into a type F outlet . Use Adaptor Plug E105 from REI , or a universal kit . This plug have 3 rectangular prong that form a triangle . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . The flat-bladed version of this plug be be phase out . In 1989 , Israel standardize a new version of the type H outlet : the hole be make round in order to accommodate type C plug a well . Use Adapter Plug E107 from REI , or a universal kit . This plug have a grounding pin and 2 flat prong form a V-shape . There be an ungrounded version of this plug a well , with only 2 flat V-shaped prong . Although there be slight difference , the Australian plug mate with the outlet use in China . Use Adapter Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . This plug be similar to type C , except that it have the addition of a grounding pin . A type C plug work in a type J outlet . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . This plug be similar to type F except that it have a grounding pin instead of ground clip . Denmark start phase in type K outlet from 2008 forward . A type C plug fit perfectly into a type K outlet . Use Adaptor Plug E106 from REI , or a universal kit . A type C plug fit perfectly into a type L outlet . This plug resemble the Indian type D plug , but it pin be much large . ByJohn Higgins Read Author Bio Last update : 01/05/2015 In This Article Glossary : Electrical Terms Glossary : Outlet Types Article Rating ( 0 ) ( 0 ) How be we do ? Give u feedback on this page . REI Gift Cards Buy now ! Check your REI gift card balance REI Membership REI member benefit include an annual refund ( typically 10 % on eligible purchase ) . Join REI today ! Sign up for REI Gearmail and get 15 % off select item ! Store Locator Locate an REI store near you . Company Info About REI Jobs at REI 100 % Satisfaction Guarantee Mobile Apps Corporate & Group Sales Privacy Policy Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Site Rules California Transparency in Supply Chains Act - REI 's Disclosure REI Membership Become an REI Member Member Help Find Membership Number Dividend Lookup Apply for an REI Visa Card Manage Your REI Visa Card We Care Stewardship Expert Outdoor Advice Expert Advice Articles Outdoor Videos Classes and Outings Store Events Online Affiliate Program Become an REI Affiliate Gift Registry Shop All Brands Shop Our Catalogs Shop All Categories Mobile Site Help Help Section Contact Us Order Status Return Policy Shipping Info REI Coupon 1-800-426-4840 Product Safety and Recalls 2014 Recreational Equipment , Inc. All right reserve . REI , the REI Tree and Mountain design , Novara , and REI Adventures be trademark of Recreational Equipment , Inc . Find REI on : Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr 