Top 61 Complaints and Reviews about Pacific Gas and Electric Menu Consumer Affairs Consumer News Consumer Resources Write a review Search dive Log in Pacific Gas and Electric California Home > Homeowners > Utilities Are you this business ? Learn about ConsumerAffairs for Brands ! Overall Satisfaction Rating 1.23 /5 Based on 31 rating out of 61 review 5 star 0 0 % 4 star 1 3 % 3 star 2 6 % 2 star 0 0 % 1 star 28 90 % show rating distribution Compare Utility Companies Research top Utility Companies recommendation on ConsumerAffairs Compare Companies Tell u about your experience with Pacific Gas and Electric : write a review Record a review about your experience with Pacific Gas and Electric : Login to record a Review Tell u about your experience with Pacific Gas and Electric : write a review Share this page facebook twitter google+ email link Consumer Complaints & Reviews 61 Consumer Complaints and Reviews 61 Complaints Filter by : see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars Danielle of Vacaville , CA on Jan. 25 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating My power usage skyrocket to astronomical amount 2 Saturday morning in a row between 1 and 6 am . Both night there be a motor home park in front of our apartment and we notice the smart meter directly next to our front door be tamper with . My bill for that 400 sq . ft , one bedroom apartment be always $ 30 plus or minus a few buck for over 4 year I live there and suddenly I receive a 14 day notice that 's almost $ 200 when my bill have a credit of $ 3.88 , then shortly after I receive a bill double that and numerous time have plead for an investigation while they say they will do and it never happen . I have to pay half of it off because after be homeless for a month with 2 kid we finally get a place and have to put it in our name . Now I get a new bill say I owe an almost $ 200 deposit all for something I do n't do and you flat out do n't give a damn about your customer , hard working family that struggle paycheck to paycheck . My bill show that I use more kw of power in those 2.5 hour windows than in the whole year and PG & E Said that 's impossible . This be an injustice and I 'm tired of get rob left and right . Life be hard enough and I want to prosecute to the full extent of the law when they figure this out . I try to get photo of the motor home license plate because a powerful order indicate drug manufacturing but every time I try the motor home would start and move to a different corner try to obstruct my view . Please help me . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jeff of Morgan Hill , CA on Jan. 9 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating PG & E charge more on gas delivery charge than the actual gas cost from Tiger gas company . I 'm wonder why . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Shannon of Walnut Creek , CA on Jan. 7 , 2015 Satisfaction Rating My husband move out in 2012 and keep the PGE bill to our house in his name . PGE would n't allow me to change the account , or even add myself to the account even though I be co-owner of house and have be for 10 year . My Ex stop pay the bill I guess , and I start get letter to `` Tenant '' about late account . When I call they would n't talk to me a it 's not my account ! My Ex have over $ 800 he try transfer to me but the account be still in his name . Today without sending me a bill . So I have no account number and no amount due , they turn off my power . I homeschool two Children , and we have no light , no heat , our food be go bad , the garage door wo n't open , we ca n't get water a it 's electric dispenser , our fish be suffer , and we ca n't charge our cell phone or use the internet . I be send this from my running car in the garage . We be cold and this be so sad that in America a country think to be so advance , that this have to happen to a stay-at-home Mom whose Husband have decide to starve her and her Children out . PGE be therefore contribute to the abuse and neglect of a Father who be already in contempt of court and a negligent Father . add your response Helpful ? Yes No E. D. of Bakersfield , CA on Dec. 28 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I move into an apt approximately 700sq ft , from a 1425sqft house , my first electric bill for apt be $ 500.00 , my bill for house be never over $ 200.00 , we have the same appliance and have n't change habit . Outraged to say the least . One day I notice my neighbor , yes we be connect by one wall , who move in at same time have no meter , be get electrical power . Informed PGE and they say it would be look into , no one ever come out to check and PGE say our bill be high because they of AC unit run . They wo n't do anything about our neighbor steal electricity and now I have a $ 1,000.00 bill I can not pay . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Raul of Aptos , CA on Dec. 24 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating A PG & E tree contractor ( Wright Tree Service who sub contract Mario 's Tree Service ) top an oak tree on our neighbor 's property near power line on 8/19/14 and access the area via our property . They be unable to get their truck and chipper back up our driveway - leave skid mark and cause extensive damage to the driveway surface and side of the driveway along a 4500 square foot section of asphalt . We now need a retaining wall build where they drive their chipper and heavy box truck off our driveway , damage the hillside below the driveway . A 2500 square foot section of our soccer field that they use a a work area need to be repair . They also damage flagstone , a fruit tree , and a retaining wall . They drive past 2 private property sign and a `` no vehicle beyond this point '' sign . Workers be argue loudly on our property for roughly an hour a they attempt to get their vehicle back up our driveway . Cigarette butt be find on our soccer field after they leave . We have be unable to use our soccer field since the incident a a result of the damage . We have be demand that PG & E cover the cost of repair for over 4 month now . They refer the claim to Wright Tree Service who then send u a settlement agreement on 12/2/14 to only cover 20 % of the repair cost . It have be over 4 month since the incident and there have still be no resolution . We have receive several inch of rain since the incident which have serve to make the damage worse . PG & E have absolutely no sense of urgency to resolve this matter . We be livid on the day of the incident a a result of the complete disregard for our property . We be now 10x more angry a a result of PG & E 's unwillingness to do the right thing and cover the cost to repair the damage that their contracted worker cause out of negligence . This tree be n't even on our property , yet we be suffer the consequence of PG & E 's decision to hire incompetent contractor . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Autumn of Bakersfield , CA on Oct. 9 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating PGE be state they be base the customer 's deposit amount on the person that live in the residence before . They take the amount owe and double it . How be this fair to the person move in . Why be we pay the debt of the previous person live in that residence ? This can not be OK . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Rhoda of Bakersfield , CA on Oct. 3 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating In the Bakersfield office whenever we go inside to pay our bill there be never a place for handicap people to pay a cashier . Handicap people have to stand in the long line to pay . There be only one chair for anyone to sit in . When there be 50 or more people in line there be no way we can wait . There be a booth for handicap but no one there . Please help . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Karine of Carmichael , CA on Sept. 30 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I call last Thursday 09/25/2014 PG & E to pay my bill of $ 8.16 and I get overcharged on my bank account $ 81.41 . The lady who I speak ask me to repeat my bank account and I do repeat . Then she hang up on me without give me a confirmation number . I immediately go to check my bank account online . I saw that she overcharge me . I have be on the phone since Thursday try to solve this problem that PG & E make . PG & E say they can reimburse me but it will take 15 day and I do n't have only PG & E bill ; I have other bill . Now PG & E say the fast way to get my money to not be penalize on my other bill be to talk to my bank directly and see if they can credit me back my money which I do go the very next day . The customer service from Golden One at the branch when we call with the personal banker say that it usually take 10 day but she would do everything in her power to do it Friday or at the late Monday . Now Monday be here . I get off from work and I do n't see my money back on pending . Between Friday and now I have speak to this lady from PG & E who say once my bank reimburse me the payment she will credit my account for $ 50 . Another agent from PG & E have say she feel so bad and she will make sure she follow up with me on Monday because Friday she be off . Monday come . None of these lady have call me to follow up neither the personal banker . At this point I be tired . PG & E stole my money and do n't want to give it back at an appropriate time for me to not be penalize on my other bill and rent . I will have to take legal action and take it to the law . I see all these complaint about PG & E and nobody be do anything about these thief . Today I make my decision . They will not reimburse me $ 81.41 but they will have to pay for all my inconvenience and it will be more than that . They be not professional at all . If you be look for a job and you can not do your job right , do n't apply just for you to pay your bill . This be people bank information you be deal with . All of them agent or supervisor be incompetent people . That 's be say , PG & E or Citibank will have to deal with my lawyer . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Phetsamone of Fresno , CA on Aug. 16 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating The wind knock down my tree and cause a power outage . By the time the PG & E crew come out they do n't even ask me that much question . They go to ask my neighbor who be a tree cutter and that ** tell them that I be cut my tree which be n't true . I tell the PG & E guy that the wind knock down the limb of the tree which cause it to hit the power line and cause the power outage . Now they say that I have to pay 11 thousand for the damaged that be due to mother nature . I feel that be so pathetic . They come out only one time to trim my tree 2 foot from the main power line and I call them about 3 time about the tree be in the power line and now they want me to pay 11 thousand for a damaged that be cause by Mother Nature smfh . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Elizabeth of Bakersfield , CA on July 21 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I go to the office on H St. in Bakersfield , CA and they tell me it be go to take 48 hr to start service . I say , `` Do you know how hot it be ? Let me talk to your supervisor . '' I wait 10 min then ** , the supervisor , have a attitude and say oh well , I create the problem by not call in when I move in . My father just pass away . I totally forget and he say with a smirk on his face , `` Not our problem . '' What kind of a person be he ? Has anyone else have problem with him ? I think he 's racist . I call the customer service . The girl and her supervisor be awesome . They really do take the time to help their customer . ** should be fire . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Rita of Newcastle , CA on July 17 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating On April 7 , 2014 I make a $ 200 payment to PGE using my Citibank debit card . My payment be authorize and an authorization number be give . When my May 2014 bill arrive the $ 200 payment be not reflect . I call PGE , talk to Fresno call center and they state they do not receive the payment . I call Citibank , they confirm payment be process and pay out to PGE on April 9 , 2014 . I again call PGE talk to Fresno call center , be again tell that PGE do not accept the $ 200 payment . I tell a supervisor I have bank statement from Citibank print out . Statements show $ 201.25 come out of my checking . I be now start to go crazy . I again call PGE call center in Fresno . I now speak with a different supervisor , Nick . He give me his fax number to fax my bank stmts to him . He promise once he receive them my PGE acct . would be credit . He never call me back on June 5th . Weeks go by I never receive any word from Nick , supervisor out of Fresno . TODAY , July 16th , 2014 , go to PGE office in Roseville , CA . What a joke . Am I live in the USA or a third world country ? I be told that they do not have a supervisor to help me , they would not even look at my Citibank statement and would not credit my account . I ca n't believe they do not even care . The female working tell me all she could do be to fax the paper back to Nick . The PGE office do not make copy of my statement , do not care the $ 200 . Payment be make . I ask her why everyone at the call center both Fresno and Sacramento call center say their office would help me . I feel like they be all brain dead . They could have make a 3 way call to my bank . Plus my bank statement all proof payment be make . This have be go on for 4 month . What be their problem ? Who be in charge ? ? ? THEY will not give me credit . What do I do ? They do nothing but lie . They be not honest , not right they take our money steal and get away . Not to mention all the stress . I be a correctional nurse with a severe work injury . I do n't have an extra $ 200 to give them for free . They tell me today they would be shut off my power . Fine let them . They also have my deposit . They be like the insurance company . All crook . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Lynne of Merced , CA on June 16 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I leave my now ex-husband Jan 2010 - contact PG & E regard my account . I be told there be a past due amount and that I need to have a zero balance before I could remove my name from the account . I be pay weekly to get myself unassisted with the account . Finally July 2010 I call and be then tell I could not remove my name off the account since I be the primary . I tell them to shut it off then ; it be no longer my problem . I recently discover they be say I owe 568.00 from 2011 at an address I have not live at for a year and a half . I call and all I could get from PG & E be Oh well you owe . UMM , no I do n't . I have proof from DMV etc . that I do not live there and I be not pay any more of my idiot ex-husband bill . Because PG & E do not do their job , it 's not my problem . I can not believe they can not even step up and admit there may have be a mistake . What person in their right mind would pay an ex-spouse utility bill for a year and a half ? ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Fnu of San Jose , CA on Jan. 30 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I be use PG & E service from last 1 year . I do not have any electrical equipment of mine except one TV and one laptop . I never have my bill in last 12 month great than $ 70 but last month I get $ 306 bill . I be totally surprise . Even after call their customer support they have only one reason to say - it my usage . Their customer representative give me the example I may be run my refrigerator for 24 hr . But it not the unusual thing which I do . I be run it continuously from last 12 month . Even something go wrong it could double my bill but it could not be 5 time . Appreciate any suggestion , how I can go against it and get the justice . Living in a small one bedroom with my wife and pay $ 306 a electricity bill can not be acceptable in any circumstance . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Kip of San Francisco , CA on Jan. 21 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I 've live in my house for 14+ year . Last December ( 2013 ) I receive a card in my mailbox say PG & E could n't read my meter . I call the phone number and leave them message on 3 separate occasion . Nobody call back . My December bill come in at $ 79 , which be very low for winter . When my January 2014 bill arrive , it be $ 284 . It turn out that PG & E perform an `` estimate '' meter read for my December bill . Somehow this estimation be about the low of the year , despite it be winter . When the meter be actually read in January , PG & E bill me the entire difference between the ( ridiculously low ) December estimate read and the actual read all in a single month 's billing cycle . That put me well into Tier 3 and Tier 4 price . This cause an overcharge of well over $ 100 when I have n't use any more gas or electricity than normal . I think PG & E be do this intentionally . All they need to claim be that they could n't access your meter and then estimate the reading low . It 's sandbag . It 's illegal . add your response Helpful ? Yes No George of Greenfield , CA on Jan. 8 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating I switch to another gas supplier out of TX . My gas bill be $ 88.00 but PG & E also charge me a $ 91.00 `` delivery charge '' ! ! When I call PG & E , I be told it be cost for gas line maintenance . This do n't seem right . How can the maintenance be more than product ? ? ? And how could it cost $ 91.00 a month ? ? ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Matt of San Leandro , CA on Dec. 1 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating The subject should be address in these issue . I move into a two bedroom town home at the start of the summer , which I understand usually rate for the summer can be high if you have numerous fan , or an AC unit with a high demand . Well none of these be the case in my issue a we have no AC and would occasionally have one small fan in a window for an hour at best . How be it my very first bill from these bastard be over 400 dollar ( 200 hundred for the deposit , then another 230 for the bill ) a my wife be a stay at home mother , I assume she be do something to warrant these ungodly bill . So after make a few modification around our home our bill for the next month drop to 218 , again ... What the hell could we be do wrong ? So I do a most people on here have do . We have a technician come out to explain a bunch of mumbo jumbo that still make no sense . He point out we have all electric appliance , but I just move from Los Angeles where again we have all electric appliance , use far more electricity and our bill average between 30-60 dollars/ monthly . I 've heard that PG & E be attempt to recoup it loss from the huge lawsuit they recently pay out , well PG & E ... `` Your mistake should not be pass on to the end user . If I make a mistake , I own up to it apologize , make it right then I move on with my life . It seem with these so call `` Smart Meters '' you 've find a way to scam the end user . I pray the justice system be swift once this all come to light and your executive our put out in the cold . As it stand currently I have yet to have a bill below $ 200 dollar despite not use most of my appliance , unplug everything imaginable and still try to keep a small child , my wife and I comfortable . Someone need to do something about this company , and fast ! ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Noel of Sunnyvale , CA on Nov. 21 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating I transfer my natural gas account to Tiger Natural Gas Inc. and PG & E be charge me Gas Delivery Charges . Do they have legal right to charge me when I have other friend in the same situation but they be not be charge delivery charge . Thanks ... . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Rick of Merced , CA on Nov. 11 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating House be take over with false order of protection , while fight the court to get house back , because I be n't there to get mail and pay . My PG & E power be turn off . So the house thief steal the power . Four day late , judge give me back my house and an hour late PG & E be there check on a call . They cut power for theft and give $ 1200.00 fine and the $ 600.00 for the bill . I give them copy of restrain showing I could not have do this . I be a victim . They would help me . The power be off helped them to steal almost everything I ever own . Now disable and on fix income , cant start over and soon to be homeless . Do I need a lawyer and how would I pay him if I do . Any answer let me know . Thanks . Worried . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Phase of Pinole , CA on Oct. 23 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating Recently , I participate in PG & E 's weatherization program . I be told that they would be provide me with weatherstrip on my window and door a well a check for gas leak ; possibly repair a few crack in window a well . Most of the technician send out were fairly decent . They tell me that they be go to schedule a technician for me to REPAIR a minor gas leak I have in my water heater pipe . When the technician arrive , he basically tell me he could not repair it because it involve actual skilled work , like soldering , and that he could n't simply turn a wrench to fix it so there be too much effort involve , and that `` for my safety '' , he be go to have to shut off my gas until I get it fix . Nothing of mine be ever weatherized and no window crack be ever fix . I have two light replace in my ceiling ; which I do n't really need . Lesson learn : Do n't count on PG & E to help you , instead , count on them to regulate your `` safety '' by cutting off your utility . TL ; DR PG & E mislead me about get a repair and instead send out a `` safety technician '' to shut off my gas . add your response Helpful ? Yes No April of Sebastopol , CA on May 24 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating In October , we move into our home . When we contact PG & E to transfer service to our name , we be tell that there be a bill from the previous occupant that need to be deal with . Well , the previous occupant be decease ; I know this because she be my adopt sister . I try to explain this to the agent , but get nowhere . Several time I attempt this . Fast forward to two week ago and 16 bill come to my house address to my dead sister boyfriend . So I take all the bill and my lease agreement down to the local office . Finally , I think I 'm get somewhere . The person be less than pleasant , tell me I should have come in 7 month ago . I do n't know what to do 7 month ago ! In the meantime , they send a field agent to my house to shut off my service . The lady be nice when I tell her I be wait for PG & E to verify that I actually live in my house . She leave the power on and say she would wait . Two day late , I get a call from the verification dept . tell me that I 'm verified and that I have 24 hour to come up with $ 1,800 or I would be shut off . They say I have be use $ 400-600 a month in service ! I 'm told I ca n't see the bill , dispute the bill or anything until I pay them . I ca n't get help from any agency because the bill be n't in my name . No other company be allow to do this to their customer and we have no choice but to either pay up or sit in the dark like me . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jenifer of Clearlake , CA on Feb. 2 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating The only thing that run on PGE in my home be the light and the water heater - which be turn down to a low temperature . The month of December , my bill be double what it have ever be , claim that we have a high usage than ever before . Last year , at this time , our water heater be significantly high and we have a house mate and our usage be less . Both of my neighbor say that their bill be also double for the month of December , state that it be outrageous and no idea why it be any high than ever before . Something be not right about this . I wish that we could all come together and fight this . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Darrell of 95207 , CA on Jan. 9 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating Since 2009 , our bill from PG & E have be excessive . They instal a smart meter and do test to see how well the house weatherized . The summer of 2009 , our bill be over $ 1,500.00 . There be only two people who live in the home ; this be one of three home ( triplex ) . I know we need to pay our bill , but when you ca n't explain my bill triple or even go up 4 time the amount , I 'm concern we be now face a 48-hour notice to be turn off . Our bill now be over $ 3,000.00 . There be still only two people who live in the home . Please help . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Peter of San Rafael , CA on Dec. 7 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating If I be to fill your order for a dozen Grade AA egg and then charge you $ 100 for those egg , you would probably complain . After hearing your complaint , I might nod knowingly and reduce the price to $ 20.00 . That be 80 % off the initial bill , but you would probably still be unhappy . Eventually , I might grudgingly reduce the price another ten dollar . You should be thrill and grateful to pay only $ 10 for a carton of egg since that be 90 % off of what I originally charge you . The fact that everyone else pay only $ 2 for those same dozen egg should be of no concern to you . As ludicrous a the above scenario sound , that be precisely what PG & E be do with my billing . The letter CPUC sent me seem to be base on incomplete information PG & E give them ( surprise , surprise ! ) . Because the meter reading be skew , it be vital that follow information be provide and understood . I have a credit of $ 60 at the beginning of the timeline ( 7/8/11 - 3/10/12 ) in question . Documentation , provide by PG & E , clearly state that I pay out over $ 2,490 during that same time period , which be still not enough to support the life style of PG & E executive ( or to pay for the lawsuit ) so they want even more money . My home be approximately 950 square foot . The hot water be gas . The central heating be gas . The stove be gas . The gas meter remain consistent with past gas billing average $ 30 a month , high in the winter , low in the summer a be to be expect . There be no space heater in this house . The light bulb be all florescent except for the icebox and the stove . There be no outdoor light except for the front and back porch . There be a computer and two TVs . The light switch be motion-activated and shut off five minute if there be no detect motion in the room . I run the dishwasher about once a week and the washer once or twice a week . I rarely use the electric dryer a I have a solar-powered dryer , which work fine when the sun be shin . I live alone but spend many evening with my girlfriend , usually watch movie on a 32 television set . I explain all of this to PG & E countless time , yet they seem stuck on reading faulty data provide by a malfunctioning meter . They do not seem to find it remarkable that a small house ( that be use gas for half of it energy need ) be be charge $ 1,500 a month for three month run . I understand that PG & E must get call every day from customer who be convince their meter be faulty because their bill went up fifty dollar two month in a row , but my situation be radically different . I implore them to send a tech to look at the meter in December 2010 . Instead of dispatch a technician , they send yet another meter-reader . Now , PG & E be get a reading from the regular meter-reader , the new meter-reader , and me , report over the phone what the current kilowatt be up to . Not surprisingly , the fact that three people be read the meter instead of just one do nothing to solve the problem . It take PG & E nearly five month to send someone out to check the health of the meter . In the meantime , I have be send PG & E $ 300 ( well over what it should have be , a the newly instal meter would later confirm ) about every month in good faith until the issue be resolve . As a sign of their good faith , PG & E turn off my power . I proceed to go through three tier of PG & E management plead my case . All three customer representative , just like all the representative before them , ask me the same question . No , I do not use space heater . My heating be gas , a be my stove , hot water heater , etc . The third manager I speak with be , well , she be there to protect PG & Es interest and nothing else . We have an extend conversation , and I provide her with all the fact that be list in this letter ( gas heater , etc . ) My PG & E bill have balloon to $ 9,000 , and she tell me - I kid you not - that although there might be a problem with the meter ( ya think ? ) , there be no way of know until the meter be turn back on , and the meter could not be turn back on until I pay the past due balance . This person be more of a tough negotiator than a customer rep , but she finally agree to turn the meter on after I cough up a thousand dollar , about the same amount of money a an annual electric bill in a house this size . This be on top of the $ 1,200 I have already pay PG & E . The technician finally test the old meter in late May . By their own admission , the meter have be malfunction , spin over twelve time fast than it should have be . No one know how long the fifty-five-year- old meter have be give excessive reading , but they have be get progressively high for some time . The only time my bill be remotely reasonable be when I spend a lot of time away from home , leave just the refrigerator run and the heat ( gas ) on low for my orchid . There be no doubt , after look at the old bill and compare them with the bill Ive receive since the new meter went in , that I have be charge many thousand of dollar for power that be never deliver because the old meter hadnt work properly in year . I think with great relief that this ordeal be over once the PG & E technician confirm what I have know for about five month . Naturally , I be expect a hefty refund . Instead , the first adjustment put forth from the service rep be $ 1,300 off my $ 12,000 bill , case close . When I ask for the name of the technician and how I could get hold of him , PG & E refuse to give me his name ( ! ) . They go on to say that they didnt know ( ! ? ) how to find him . I say I felt force to go public with the fact ( an option I be still likely to pursue ) , and it be shortly after that that PG & E reduce the balance , though the amount owe be still far more than it should have be . During the period from 7/8/11 to 3/10/12 , I pay PG & E $ 2,490 and be fully expect a refund after PG & Es own man measure the meter and find that it be run 12.3 time fast than it should have be . Once PG & E remove the meter and have it in their possession , they backtrack and say their own technician be `` mistake '' and the meter be only `` slightly off '' . Instead of a refund , PG & E demand an additional $ 872.61 , which I be currently pay off in monthly installment on top of my regular bill under the threat of PG & E unplugging me unless I maintain payment . This bring to a total of $ 3.362.61 I be pay PG & E for an 8-month period in this tiny , green home , which be over $ 400 a month ! Therefore , when I read the CPUCs letter describe PG & Es additional charge of $ 872.61 on top of the absurdly excessive $ 2,490 already collect a favorable , I have to respectfully disagree . PG & E be base their billing on historical usage use inflate reading from a faulty meter that favor PG & E in a big way . After replace their old meter at my home with their new smart meter , my electrical reading plummet , yet PG & E insist on continue to charge me excessive price ( for the seven-month period prior to the smart meter installation ) base on , by their own admission , a faulty electrical meter . Of course , the important question be obvious - Does the new meter PG & E instal reflect $ 400 per month ? It do not . It be about $ 100 per month for both Gas and Electric , keep in line with the other house on my street ( finally ! ) . I would be most grateful if the CPUC would estimate a reasonable adjustment so that I might recover a portion of the fortune PG & E have be overpay over the two-year period ( at least ) prior to the Smart Meter installation in addition to the seven-month period this letter have specifically address . It have be five week since I send the CPUC this documentation and I have still not hear back from them . Regardless of whatever the outcome be of my fight against PG & E 's fearless extortion , I strongly urge that everyone check their meter accuracy . Here 's how . Take a meter reading after shut off all electricity in your home . On the most convenient circuit , plug in a 500-watt halogen light for two hour . Make sure the halogen light be the only load run on that circuit . If the reading at the end of two hour be great than one kilowatt , you 've get a defective meter give PG & E excessive reading . Whether that 's by design or not , you 'll have to decide . Or , hire a qualified electrician - notarize document his finding . Notarized documentation by certified professional be the only effective weapon you have against PG & E . Never assume that they will correct their mistake if it mean less money for their bloat bottom line . Always record conversation with anyone from PG & E and keep copy of any and all correspondence . Sadly , most people ( like me ) learn this too late , and the corruption and greed continue to fester and grow since the company be nearly untouchable . If you have ever wonder why PG & E spends tens of million of dollar on advertising and PR ( since they be essentially a monopoly- What company will you buy your power from if PG & E shuts off your juice ? ) , it 's because they do n't want too many people begin to question their billing practice . When you do n't want people to see your dirt or how deep it run , you plant flower . The price of hire a professional for a couple of hour may prove to be the best investment you make if you have a legitimate issue with PG & E . If you leave it up to PG & E to correct any kind of overbilling you 've incur , you might as well be spit in the wind . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Paul of Atascadero , CA on Dec. 4 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating PG & E be a scam . July , I receive a $ 203 bill . I decide I be n't go to use my AC anymore to keep bill down . August , I receive a $ 302 bill . I immediately call up customer support to dispute . I inform them that it be n't possible to have this bill when I know the energy consumption go down from the previous month , yet I receive a bill for 50 % more . Sept. be $ 174 . Still too high be that I still be n't use my AC . I be anticipate around $ 75- $ 100 . October come in at $ 63 . This seem more accurate . November go up to $ 87 . What the ** be go on with their billing ? When I dispute , they send out a reader to test my SMART reader and it be label a within boundary for accuracy . It be within 1/2 % margin of error or something . If that be the case , how can it be that I be see such a major fluctuation in my bill when I be monitor usage so closely ? This seem to be a scam from a monopoly . The representative tell me the impact will be that their reading be show spike in the middle of the day when the AC turn on . Disregard that I be not use my AC and my thermostat have it turn off . This be a SMART reader . It seem like it provide read base on anticipate usage and varies it , to make it look like it do n't follow directly with any trend . This be ridiculous . If I want to remove the SMART meter , they will charge $ 75 and a $ 10 service fee by the state of California . I hope more people start call these guy out . This be a joke how they can get away with this . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Danielle of Sonoma , CA on Nov. 5 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating At some point in the last two month , PG & E instal a SmartMeter without my permission . Now the last two month , my power bill have go from a norm of $ 86 to $ 100 to $ 830 for Sept. and I just get the Oct. bill for $ 1,151 . When I get the 830 dollar bill , I go to the office to get thing fix . After 1/2 hour of answer question , the person tell me I should hear back from someone in three week or so . Now I have this new bill of $ 1,151 that there be no way I could ever pay for . I need help with this . I plan on go to the office again in the morning first thing . But in the meantime , I sit and worry to the point that it 's make me sick . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Shirley of Woodland , CA on Nov. 3 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating We have frequent power outage in our area . In July , we have an outage that cause my air-conditioner to burn out . The company that replace it ( at a cost of $ 2,500 ) state that PG & E should be responsible since the unit be only 5 year old and problem cause by the outage . I contact PG & E and they refuse assistance , state that the outage could have be cause by an `` act of God '' such a a bird , etc . and since they do not cause the outage deliberately , they be not responsible . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Ros of Novato , CA on Sept. 13 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating Well , I be part of the Balanced Payment Plan with PG & E for quite a while since my bill be go up and it make sense back then . On July 1st , 2012 , I transfer 50 % of my electricity consumption to Marin Clean Energy ( MCE ) for the sake of the environment , but my bill went from $ 221 to $ 251 . The $ 31 increase be due to the 50 % cost of electricity from MCE . So , I decide to check the bill to realize that my actual bill be around $ 89 in the past month , and PG & E never contact me to tell me that the BPP be n't work anymore since I do n't use that much energy anymore and they be promote smart meter and efficient use of energy ; it be all a scam to put you to sleep , they just want to beef up profit and make you pay for the San Bruno Gas Pipe Disaster . But guess what , I call MCE and transfer all my energy consumption ( 100 % solar ) to them . I love competition ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Vuong of San Jose , CA on Aug. 1 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating PG & E wo n't restore power for my property locate on ** Milpitas , CA 95035 . I try to settle them with the past due amount that be owe on the property by the previous home owner . Because of this problem , I have be force to use generator a a second source of electricity . Please help me . PG & E only want to deal with the previous owner and I do n't know where he be . Thank you . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Terry of Emeryville , CA on March 27 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating On 11/18/11 , PG & E sent me a letter inform me that they have discover that I be be bill Oakland 's utility tax rate incorrectly . My business be in Emeryville . They give me a contact person ( George ** ) with the City of Oakland and he send me a form to fill out to get a refund . I fill out the form , provide the documentation , and receive a check back for one year of the 8 year that they have overcharge . He ( George ) tell me that the statute of limitation on this be one year . I receive my refund check for $ 277.66 . Extrapolating from that , my refund amount would be a minimum of another $ 2000 , probably more , for the remain year . It seem odd to me that PG & E be not take responsibility and re-collecting the tax from Oakland and that there would be a statute of limitation on something like this . My bill simply say `` utility tax '' without identify for what city the tax be collect . My understanding of statute of limitation be that there be an implication that one knew about the problem , which I do not . I have ask Mr. ** in a voice mail leave today to provide me with the citation in code for his assertion that the statute of limitation limit my recovery . I have so far receive nothing , but I hope that he will comply . If not , I will call again in hope of speak with him directly . Everyone involve , especially Mr. ** , have be polite , but I feel stonewall regard this money . What right do Oakland have to keep it ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Kay of Bakersfield , CA on Dec. 15 , 2011 Satisfaction Rating I have an approximately 600 square foot loft and I 've be live here for about 1.5 year . Usually my bill be approximately $ 60- $ 90 and even during the summer a maximum of $ 120 or so . Well this past July , I get a bill for about $ 280 and my AC be off because it be break for about a week and the PG & E representative insist that it have be run non-stop . So I do n't argue with him because he be give me the run around say maybe there be a glitch in my AC unit or something which be n't the case , I know it . So I decide in August I would go out to the mall or some other place with AC to hang out while it be hot , so I do n't have to use my AC . I end up get another $ 300 bill . Once again , there be nothing I could do because he insist that it show all my usage online , etc . Now , we 're in winter , I run my heater every night and my bill be back down to $ 50 . I feel so helpless against PG & E and I know they be scamming people or raise their rate but since they be the only energy company , it 's like you ca n't argue with them even though there be large gap between summer and winter bill . All they have to say be , `` well , it 's summer time so you 're use your ac more '' and even though I explain to him I do n't even touch the damn thermostat . It 's not like he can come to my house and witness for himself that I 'm not use my AC , you know ? PG & E be a tyrant company . If they be collect $ 400 from everybody during the summer that 's a scam . How much be the CEO getting pay ? If my bill be $ 200 per month , that good be go to finding more resource , not a CEO having a billion dollar salary . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Next page Pacific Gas and Electric Company Profile Basic Information Company Name : Pacific Gas and Electric Website : www.pge.com Home Brands Blog About Us FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your use of this site constitute acceptance of the Terms of Use . Advertisements on this site be place and controlled by outside advertising network . ConsumerAffairs.com do not evaluate or endorse the product and service advertise . See the FAQ for more information . Partner with ConsumerAffairs for Brands If your company have a page on our site , we invite you to sign up for a Starter Account today to respond to your customer directly . Alternatively , you may call u at 1-866-773-0221 . For more information , see about u , FAQ and privacy policy . The information on this Web site be general in nature and be not intend a a substitute for competent legal advice . ConsumerAffairs.com make no representation a to the accuracy of the information herein provide and assumes no liability for any damage or loss arise from the use thereof . Sentiment Analysis power by Netbase Copyright 2015 Consumers Unified LLC . All Rights Reserved . The content of this site may not be republish , reprint , rewritten or recirculated without write permission . Connect with u Contact u Sign up for our consumer newsletter Sign up Write a review Home Consumer News Consumer Resources Log in Connect with u Loading Had an experience with Pacific Gas and Electric ? Tell Everyone ! Or record a review about your experience with Pacific Gas and Electric : Login to record a Review Pacific Gas and Electric I 'm with the company We do n't currently support customer response to review , but you be welcome to write a review and share your experience . Record a video review 