Your iPhone Uses More Energy Than A Refrigerator ? Controversial New Research Spurs Debate View mobile site March 3 , 2015 Huffpost Technology Edition : U.S . Show/Hide Brasil BR Canada CA Deutschland DE Espaa ES France FR ( Greece ) GR India IN Italia IT ( Japan ) JP ( Korea ) KR Maghreb MG United Kingdom UK United States US Follow Newsletters Get TechnologyNewsletters Email address Enter Email Address Huffington Post Search Search The Huffington Post Enter Search Terms Submit Search iOS app Android app More Desktop Alerts Log in Create Account $ USERNAME Desktop Notifications Profile Settings Logout FRONT PAGE Business Here Are The Top 10 Billionaires Of 2015 0 Big Change At Costco 56 What Warren Buffett Really Thinks About Elizabeth Warren 0 10 Tricks To Appear Smarter In Meetings 0 Here 's The Most Unique Job In Each State 0 Go to Business More in Business Small Biz Money You Might Also Like WorldPost Tech Media Arts Sports Weird News Smarter Ideas Urban Progress Small Biz 10 Ways to Connect With Potential Clients Without Leaving Your House 0 Go to Small Biz More in Small Biz Board of Directors Success Stories 5 Things You Need To Know Tools News and Trends You Might Also Like Business Money Tech Arts Food Media 'SNL 's ' Skit Did More to Defeat ISIS Than Any Bombing Campaign . Satire Destroys Extremist Ideology . 58 'Epic Managerial Incompetence ' : First Look Staffer Quits , Publishes Tell-All In Politico 0 Man Arrested In Slaying Of American Blogger 5 Go to Media More in Media Eat The Press Calderone : The Backstory You Might Also Like Entertainment TV Comedy Arts Books Religion Moviefone Science Mass Grave Found Under Parisian Supermarket 0 Mysterious Coffin Buried Near 'Crooked King ' Yields Big Surprise 0 Big Telescope Gives Best-Ever 3D View Of Deep Space 0 Why This Psychologist Thinks The Science Behind Anti-Depressants May Be Completely 'Backwards' 146 Scientists Believe They 've Found The Smallest Life On Earth 0 Go to Science More in Science Space Brain Earth Talk Nerdy To Me Weird Science You Might Also Like Tech Green Arts Religion Weird News Green New Pollution Documentary Gains Huge Audience In China 46 New Round Of Snow Could Push Boston To Season Record 21 Southern California Beach Turned White By Hail 7 The Route To These Ice Caves Is Treacherous , But The Views Are Totally Worth It 0 The Eiffel Tower Just Became A Little More Green . Here Are 8 Other Landmarks That Did It First 1 Go to Green More in Green Energy Climate Change Animals Green Tech Green Holiday You Might Also Like Politics Food WorldPost Science Healthy Living Comedy Meet The 6 Coworkers Who Make Your Job A Living Hell 12 'SNL ' Women Took Sara Bareilles ' 'Brave ' Lyrics Very Literally 11 John Oliver Explains How America 's Infrastructure Is Like A Lego Set 0 Jimmy Fallon Cracks The Best Travolta-Menzel Joke Of The Season 5 Ruth Bader Ginsburg Throws Down Some Sick Gins-Burns On 'Weekend Update' 0 Go to Comedy More in Comedy Funny Videos Comedy Club Political Humor Original Video Crossing The Line You Might Also Like Entertainment TV Weird News College Arts Arts The Evocative Photography Of Elliot Erwitt , A Master Of Color 0 The Many Lives Of Leonard Nimoy : Artist , Collector , Vulcan 3 Yes , Another Street Artist Might Have Vandalized A National Park And Posted About It On Instagram 0 Meet Mernet Larsen , A Painter Whose Breakout Show Happened In Her 70 0 New York Will See Its First Prefabricated 'Micro-Apartments ' This Year 0 Go to Arts More in Arts Painting Film Design Photography Theater Architecture You Might Also Like Books NY Los Angeles Code This Man Walks 21 Miles To Work And Back Every Day 1K 11 Things That Instantly Make A Man Hot 442 The Lip Sync Battle To End All Lip Sync Battles ? 29 The 2015 Super Bowl Commercials You Need To See 53 How Gisele Bundchen Knew Tom Brady Was The One 0 Go to Code More in Code Girls In STEM Women in Tech You Might Also Like Tech Green Small Biz Education Science Media HuffPost Live Next Top Stories For Tuesday , March 3 Next 'Shahs of Sunset ' Star Reza Farahan LIVE Coming Up Netanyahu Addresses U.S. Congress LIVE Coming Up NHL All-Star Jeremy Roenick LIVE Coming Up More Than Mom : Lean In Turns 2 Go to Huffpost Live All Sections News Politics WorldPost Business Small Business Money Media Sports Education Crime Weird News Good News Entertainment Entertainment Celebrity Comedy Arts & Culture Books TV Life & Style Healthy Living GPS for the Soul Style Home Taste Weddings Travel Parents Divorce Huff/Post 50 Marlo Thomas OWN Dr. Phil Tech & Science Tech Science Green Code Voices Women Black Voices Latino Voices Voces ( en espaol ) Gay Voices Religion College Teen Impact Local Chicago DC Denver Detroit Hawaii Los Angeles Miami New York San Francisco Our Mobile Apps : iOS Android HuffPost Live ( iOS ) GPS For The Soul ( iOS ) GPS For The Soul ( Android ) Tech Women in Tech Girls In STEM Screen Sense Tech The Halls Tech Innovations Your iPhone Uses More Energy Than A Refrigerator ? Controversial New Research Spurs Debate The Huffington Post | By Meredith Bennett-Smith Email Posted : 08/20/2013 10:50 am EDT Updated : 08/20/2013 10:50 am EDT Does your smartphone actually use more energy than your fridge ? Experts debate controversial claim . | Getty Share Tweet 0 Email Comment tumblr stumble reddit Is your iPhone use more energy annually than your fridge ? That 's the surprising -- and increasingly controversial -- claim lay out by Digital Power CEO Mark P. Mills in his new paper , `` The Cloud Begins With Coal : Big Data , Big Networks , Big Infrastructure , and Big Power . '' From the paper : Reduced to personal term , although charging up a single tablet or smart phone require a negligible amount of electricity , use either to watch an hour of video weekly consume annually more electricity in the remote network than two new refrigerator use in a year . And a the world continue to electrify , migrate towards one refrigerator per household , it also evolve towards several smartphones and equivalent per person . The claim be base on a smartphone 's total energy usage per year , meaning Mills ' conclusion take into account the sum of energy use for wireless connection , data usage and battery charge . TIME reach out to Max Luke , a policy associate at the Breakthrough Institute , to help clarify the calculation use by Mills . In an email to TIME , Luke write : Last year the average iPhone customer use 1.58 GB of data a month , which time 12 be 19 GB per year . The most recent data put out by a ATKearney for mobile industry association GSMA ( p. 69 ) say that each GB require 19 kW . That mean the average iPhone us ( 19kw X 19 GB ) 361 kwh of electricity per year . In addition , ATKearney calculate each connection at 23.4 kWh . That bring the total to 384.4 kWh . The electricity use annually to charge the iPhone be 3.5 kWh , raise the total to 388 kWh per year . EPAs Energy Star show refrigerator with efficiency a low a 322 kWh annually . However , not everyone be a convince by Mills ' report , which be sponsor by the National Mining Association and the American Coalition for Clean Coal Energy . MSN News evaluate the study and find Mills ' claim about iPhone energy `` false . '' The MSN article claim that Mills be actually recycle similar research he publish in 2000 about the amount of energy need to power a Palm Pilot vs. a refrigerator . Jonathan Koomey , a research fellow at the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance at Stanford University , even say he have debunk Mills ' previous claim and call his late paper `` outrageous . '' `` What we find in 2000 be that a refrigerator use 2,000 time more electricity than the networking electricity of a wireless Palm Pilot , '' Koomey tell MSN . `` He be not a credible source of information . '' The TIME piece note that smartphone energy usage varies widely depend on wireless connection and data , conclude that Mills ' number imply very heavy usage , or a `` worst-case model '' of energy usage . While Mills do not immediately respond to a request for comment , he tell MSN in an email that his fact and figure be accurate and not meant to promote the coal industry , which sponsor the paper . Mills also defend his research on social medium : `` Baloney '' aye ? There r dozen of `` scholarly '' cite in my report-Rumor : An iPhone use more power than a refrigerator http : //t.co/HIoKMGCemO Mark P. Mills ( @ MarkPMills ) August 18 , 2013 More : iPhone Refrigerator Energy iPhone iPhone Energy Research iPhone Energy Tech News Controversial Research iPhone iPhone Energy Refrigerator Suggest a correction Around the Web Links 17 Aug : Your iPhone Uses More Energy Than Your Refrigerator Does an iPhone really burn more coal than a refrigerator ? iPhones consume more energy than refrigerator New study show iPhone us a much energy a a refrigerator , include wifi ... Your iPhone us more energy than a refrigerator Which do you think us more energy your fridge or your iPhone ? Apple iPhones consume more energy than fridge ! Your iPhone us more energy than your refrigerator | Mail Online Apple iPhone Uses More Energy Than A Refrigerator ? Report ... The Surprisingly Large Energy Footprint of the Digital Economy ... Click here to view Conversations Conversations Suggested For You FOLLOW HUFFPOST Email Email Address Please check the checkbox to indicate your consent Options The Morning Email Technology Get top story and blog post email to me each day.. Facebook HuffPost Technology Twitter HuffPost Follow Technology Follow Google Plus HuffPost Technology RSS Most Popular on HuffPost Latest News Technology All RSS / Feeds Phone Available on the App Store Android App on Google Play Get it at Blackberry App World From Our Partners ZergNet Search The Huffington Post Enter Search Terms Submit Search Advertise Log In Make HuffPost your Home Page RSS Careers FAQ User Agreement Privacy Comment Policy About Us About Our Ads Contact Us Copyright 2015 TheHuffingtonPost.com , Inc . `` The Huffington Post '' be a register trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com , Inc. All right reserve . Part of AOL Tech Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story . Notify message * Required * * * What kind of error be this ? Choose an option Factual or typographical Comment moderation problem Rights and permission Other * What be the correction ? 0 count Describe the error here ( 1,000 character limit ) * Type the word below so we know you be not a cyborg 