Energy saving kettle - Green Energy Efficient Homes Home About me Get in touch Basics Energy efficient home Energy saving fact Energy saving idea Energy saving benefit Energy saving plan Energy saving checklist Upgrades Window covering Window blind Sun tube Icynene insulation Infrared heat gun Heating duct insulation More Appliances Dehumidifiers Freezers Energy saving tool Dryers Refrigerator energy usage Efficient washer & dryer More Light LED light Outdoor LED light Recycling fluorescent bulb Fluorescent garage light Turn off light LED under cabinet light How fluorescent light work Energy efficient fluorescent light Heat Electric heater Most efficient Crawl space heater Coleman electric furnace Carrier furnace Electric heater rating More Cool Central AC unit AC problem Intertherm AC system Best AC temperature Air conditioner mister Window AC unit More Electricity Solar electricity Energy saving capacitor Leaving thing plug in The Kill-A-Watt meter How to save electricity Electricity price Green electricity Negawatts Hot water Electric shower head Electric hot water tank Point of use water heater Portable water heater Shower head valve FAQ Best air conditioner Best space heater Best new furnace Heating vent on outside wall Freezer in garage More Shop Room air conditioner Space heater Energy saving kettle You be here : Home / Energy saving kettle Ways to save energy on your next cup of tea If youre look for energy save kettle , you probably dont need to look much farther than your own kitchen . Some simple common sense will save you a lot more energy when boil your water , than try to track down a kettle thats more energy efficient . Consider electric kettle . Remember that an electric heating element be 100 % efficient at convert electrical energy to heat . You arent go to find one kettle with a heating element thats more efficient than another . There be of course a couple of feature that can help you make more efficient use of a kettle . Cheaper kettle , for example , sometimes lack an automatic shutoff , which mean that if you get sidetrack , your water keep on boil until the kettle boil dry ( and possibly burn itself out ) . So a kettle with automatic shutoff will save you energy if you tend to leave the kettle boil and then wander off . Here be some of the key thing you can do to turn ordinary kettle into energy save kettle , without rushing off to the store to buy a new one : Only boil what you need . This be an obvious one : if youre make a four-cup pot of tea , only put four cup of water in the kettle . Theres no point boil more water than you need . It will take longer , and it will use more energy . So measure carefully . Of course , if your kettle doesnt let you see inside easily , measure with a measuring cup ( or by filling the teapot first , then pour that into the kettle ) may be your only option ; since youre not likely to keep this up forever , buy a kettle where you can clearly see how full it be will help . Breville variable temperature kettle 1.8 liter About $ 125 Buy the right size kettle . This be really an add-on to boiling only what you need . If you usually only boil a cup or two at a time , get a really small kettle . Larger kettle have a minimum fill level require to cover up the heating element . If that minimum fill level be more than the hot water you need , youre better off switch to a small kettle than always boil too much water . The Breville kettle shown at right boil up to eight cup of water , with a minimum one cup setting . For people who tend to make a cup of tea at a time , but occasionally want a full pot , energy save kettle like this one make more sense than a cheap , conventional kettle where you cant even tell how much water youve add . Also note that this kettle include five different brewing temperature so you only heat the water to the level you need . No point boil water for coffee , if you want it brew at a low temperature . Cuisinart cordless electric kettle About $ 79 Dont boil if you dont have to . For make tea and coffee , you dont actually need to bring the kettle to a full boil . While it one of my perpetual gripe that most restaurant dont know how to make tea they brew it with tepid water , which isnt hot enough to properly steep out the full flavor of the tea boil water be too hot for most tea , and for coffee a well . If you could set your kettle so that it only boil the water to the temperature you need , there would be some saving there . For instance , take water from 60F to 200F ( the temperature recommend for French press coffee ) be 140F , while boiling at 212F be an extra 12F more , or an extra 8 % . For green tea , meanwhile , the recommend temperature be 175F , so theres a saving of about 24 % on the energy require to heat water for green tea , instead of bring it to a full boil . The Cuisinart cordless electric kettle picture above be a highly rat and somewhat less expensive kettle that do just this let you choose the type of tea youre make ( there a French Press option too ) and then bring the water to that temperature , and beep when it done . The only drawback to this kettle it bill a a feature , but be not a feature in term of it energy efficiency be that it keep the water at the select temperature for up to half an hour , so that if you start the kettle and get temporarily sidetrack , the water be still ready when you get to it late . This be convenient but can lead to waste energy if you make a habit out of leave the kettle on unattended . Prewarm the teapot sparingly , and reuse the water : If you be boil water for tea and you want to prewarm your teapot ( a habit my parent insist on , though they never notice when I make their tea without preheating ) , just pour a half cup of boil water in the pot , swirl it around for about 10 second or so , and pour it back in the kettle . Bring the kettle back to a boil and then make your tea . This way your tea pot be pre-warmed , but you havent throw the hot water use for preheating the teapot down the drain . Use the hot water right away . Heres a sin Im guilty of , a be many others : I start the kettle boil , then go off and do something else , mean to get back to the kettle right after it have boil , and brew my coffee . But I get sidetrack . The kettle boil , then shut off . Ten minutes late Im back , and I have to boil the water again to brew my coffee , since the water be no longer hot enough . If youre heating your house with electricity , this doesnt matter so much the heat from the kettle escape into your house and warms it . But if you heat with a less expensive source like natural gas , or it already hot outside , it just a waste of energy to bring a kettle to the boil twice , when once will do . Animal tea kettle with whistle spout About $ 46 Another thing you can do to ensure you use the hot water right away , be to make sure everything else be ready before the water boil . If youre make coffee the way I do ( hand-pouring a thin trickle of hot water through a cloth filter , a I be tought by coffee connoisseur in Costa Rica ) , have the ground coffee in the filter ready to pour , and the decanter wait under the filter . Dont wait for the water to boil , then start set up the coffee-making or tea-making ritual . Finally , a far a use the hot water quickly go , if you often tend to forget about the kettle , look for energy save kettle that let you know when the water have boil . Old whistling stovetop kettle definitely qualify a energy saving kettle when it come to forgetful people : it pretty hard to leave one of them boil for very long . Zojirushi hybrid water boiler and warmer About $ 189 Look for insulate energy saving kettle . If you be like me and you just cant help get sidetrack after the kettle have boil and especially if you drink a lot of tea or coffee look for energy save kettle with an insulate shell . These kettle will keep more of the heat inside the kettle so that the water last long before it need to be boil again , or take less energy to come back to the boil . For the avid tea drinker , consider an insulated electric kettle such a the Zojirushi series of hybrid water boiler . These be outstanding product that get rave review from buyer ; they be energy efficient because the water be keep hot in a vacuum flask , and they provide three different temperature setting : 205F for ramen noodle and herbal infusion 195F for black tea 175F for green and white tea The hot set can be use for coffee if youre brew it by hand . The Zojirushi be definitely a pricy option but if you want the convenience of instant hot water for your tea youll love this line of boiler . Save the extra hot water . If you do boil too much hot water , use whats leave . Leave it in the kettle someone else might come along and want to make themselves a cup of tea . Or put the water in a thermos to keep it hot . Or pour it into the sink when youre do dish ( naturally , you have the plug in already ! ) . Above all , dont pour hot water down the drain in winter youre just throw away perfectly good heat . Chefs Choice SmartKettle , variable temperature About $ 100 Use an electric kettle , not a stovetop kettle . An electric kettle will be more efficient than a kettle you put on a stovetop , because much of the heat from a stovetop burner escape around the side of the kettle , especially with a natural gas or propane stove . So use an electric kettle be well than use a stove-top kettle on an electric stove , and be probably more energy efficient than use a stove-top kettle on a gas stove a well . In the case of a gas stove , an electric kettle could be less efficient in term of both price and greenhouse gas produce , if your electricity come from coal or natural gas , because only about a third of the heat from burn the fossil fuel at the power plant reach your house a electricity , whereas over 60 % of the heat in the natural gas or propane actually heat up the stove-top kettle . Of course , if you switch to a green electricity supplier , you wont produce any greenhouse gas at all by boiling your electric tea kettle . Make one pot of tea and keep it hot . No one like to drink a cold cup of tea or coffee . But what do you do if the pot have go cold ? The easy way out be to boil the kettle again and make a fresh pot , but this can be wasteful . Some other option : Reheat the cold cup of tea or coffee in the microwave . Sounds like sacrilege to some connoisseur , but it do save energy ! If you dont mind it , do it . No one watch . Make ice tea or coffee with whats leave . Just throw it in the fridge and drink it cold late . Works for me at least , in the summer ! Use a thermos for either tea or coffee . Tea can be brew in a ceramic pot a usual , but a soon a it be brew , pour the tea ( without the tea bag or tea leaf ) into a vacuum insulate decanter . This will keep it hot for hour without use any extra energy . Dont boil if you dont need to . If you need hot water but not boil water , it doesnt make sense to boil the water and then let it cool down . Similarly , if you boil the kettle a quarter hour earlier , and some hot water be leave in it , you dont necessarily have to boil that water again it may already be hot enough for whatever you want to use it for . Some new energy save kettle come with temperature control that let you heat the water to a specify temperature below boil , while others have a temperature indicator to tell you what the temperature be . If your kettle hot water temperature be at 90C , it probably hot enough to make another cup of tea or dissolve a cube of Oxo . No need to boil again . Some like it hot ! What temperature should you steep your tea ? What temperature should you brew your coffee ? Black tea should be steep at 195F ( 90C ) Green/white tea should be steep at 175F ( 80C ) Hand-brewed coffee should be brew at 195-205F ( 90C-95F ) . Theres really not much more to energy saving kettle than this : boil only what you need , use it right away , keep it hot in a thermos without use more energy , and be at hand and at the ready when the kettle do boil . If you strive to do this , then all the kettle you come across will be energy save kettle . And if youre look for a new energy save kettle , just buy one thats the right size , be electric , have an automatic shutoff , and , if you get easily sidetrack , reminds you loudly when the water have boil ! A word about coffee maker You can make your coffee a I do , by pouring near-boiling water into a cloth sack fill with ground coffee . Thats how they do it in Costa Rica , where I live for a year , and it do make delicious coffee . Its reasonably efficient a long a you make sure , a with tea , to only boil the right amount of water . But it may be more energy efficient to use a coffee maker , especially one with a thermal flask that keep the brew coffee warm without require a heating plate . Another alternative be to use a small coffee maker if you typically only drink a cup or two at a time . People often brew a huge pot of coffee , leave it on the warming plate , and then wind up throw most of it out because it be cook to death . 0 reply Leave a Reply Want to join the discussion ? Feel free to contribute ! Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be publish . Required field be mark * Name * Email * Website Comment You can use basic HTML tag such a < b > , < i > , < p > and so on . Posts contain < a > or `` href= '' be not allow . Recent Comments Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Brian on Geothermal vs. high-efficiency gas furnace Robin on Crawl space heater Christine on Crawl space heater Green Energy Efficient Homes Inc. 2014 . Privacy policy | Disclaimer . 