Want to low your electricity bill ? Tips on how to save BC Hydro Regeneration | 50 Hi UserFirst My Profile Personal Information Subscriptions & Alerts Change Password Log out Log in or Create a MyHydro Profile Search About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us Accounts & Billing Power Smart Energy in B.C . News , Events & Media In Your Community Safety & Outages Media Centre Close Photo Gallery Executive Team Facilities News Images Video Library News Archive Close 2015 news archive 2014 news archive 2013 news archive 2012 news archive 2011 news archive 2010 news archive 2009 news archive 2008 news archive Transmission News Archive Unplug this Blog ! Close 2015 archive 2014 archive 2013 archive 2012 archive 2011 archive 2010 archive 2009 archive 2008 archive Events Close Business Events 2015 Power Smart Forum 2014 Power Smart Excellence Awards Power Smart Energy Challenge Earth Hour 2014 2014 Candlelight Dinner Join the Conversation Home News , Events & Media News Archive 2013 news archive News Nov 22 , 2013 Want to low your electricity bill ? Tips on how to save Use MyHydro to track your electricity use , then start cut energy waste There be many way to help keep your electricity bill low , especially in winter , when we generally see an increase in our electricity use . See our tip below on how to low your energy cost . You can also view our visual guide [ PDF , 559 KB ] to help you understand your bill . MyHydro , your free BCHydro account online , allow you to track your electricity use daily , down to the hour . You can view your consumption , identify high point where you may be able to cut back on usage , and compare your home to home nearby . Are you use more than the average home ? Try putting some PowerSmart tip in to action to help low your usage , and check back regularly to track your progress . Join Team PowerSmart , activate an energy reduction challenge , and you could earn a reward Once you have a MyHydro profile , join Team PowerSmart . Not only will you get exclusive tip , offer and reward , you may qualify to activate a 10 per cent electricity reduction challenge that could earn you a reward on top of all the money you save on your bill . Learn how a bchydro.com editor be over $ 400 ahead , thanks to Team PowerSmart . Minimize energy waste , and your bill will be low You do n't have to change your daily activity , but a few change in the way you use electricity and in the efficiency of your home can make a huge difference . Switch to ENERGY STAR CFL and LED bulb : CFLs use about 75 per cent less energy and can last up to 10 time long than standard incandescent bulb . LEDs also use about 75 per cent less energy and can last 20 year . Learn about light cost in our light comparison chart . See tip on how to draft proof , insulate your home and manage your thermostat : Draftproofing your home can reduce your heat loss by 10 per cent , and it 's relatively easy and inexpensive to do . Know how to use space and baseboard heater more efficiently : only heat the room that you be use and remember to keep them free from obstruction to minimize fire risk . Run your laundry load on cold . On average , three load of laundry washed in cold water will save you $ 54 a year when compare to washing in hot water* . If you can shorten your shower by two minute , you could save an average of $ 30 a year . * Remember to turn off the light when you leave a room . Converting cold to cozy : put on a sweater or use a blanket instead of turn up the heat . Buy ENERGY STAR electronics when replace or upgrade . The most efficient ENERGY STAR television be 30 per cent more efficient than a standard television . * If electric hot water heating be use . Other program to help you improve the efficiency of your home The LiveSmart BC : Energy Efficiency Program provide homeowner with incentive for home energy efficiency upgrade . Incentives be be offer on air sealing , ventilation , insulation and much more . Are you a low income BCHydro customer ? We can help you save $ 30 a year If you 're a qualifying low-income customer , you can receive a free Energy Saving Kit . Our free kit offer simple way to help you save energy , reduce your monthly bill , increase the comfort of your home and help the environment . The Energy Saving Kit be a box of easy-to-install energy efficient product mail directly to the participant 's home , free of charge . The kit include water-saving product , energy efficient light , draft proof material ( for drafty windows and door ) and other item customize for different housing type and need . You could save an average of $ 30 a year if you instal all item of the kit . See our video to learn about common reason for a high than expect bill and to help you understand your consumption . See also Our best winter heating tip for your home Use your space and baseboard heater efficiently this winter About BC Hydro Careers Newsletters Contact Us My Profile Log out Log in Accounts & Billing Power Smart Energy in B.C . News , Events & Media In Your Community Safety & Outages View Mobile Site Copyright 2015 BC Hydro . All Rights Reserved Legal Privacy Statement Site Index 