Will a gas oven be cheap than electric ? - Telegraph Accessibility link Skip to article Skip to navigation Advertisement Telegraph.co.uk Search - enhance by OpenText Thursday 05 March 2015 Home Video News World Sport Finance Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Cars Companies Comment Personal Finance ISAs Economy Markets Property Enterprise Deals Investor ISAs Investing Pensions Savings Interest Rates Funds Mortgages Credit Cards Expat Money Video Special Reports Home Finance Personal Finance Household bill Will a gas oven be cheap than electric ? In a new series start this week , The Telegraph open the floor to your question about anything and everything relate to your household bill . Cooking on gas : Experts say gas be cheap than electric By Jessica Winch 7:48AM BST 02 Jul 2013 Follow Comments To get your question answer , email it to money @ telegraph.co.uk with `` household bill '' in the subject line . I be in the process of refit my kitchen and have a choice between a gas or electric oven . Which be more cost-effective to run ? There be significant difference in the cost of cook with gas and electricity , and give cook account for a typical 4pc of the average 1,200 energy bill , it 's worth make the right choice . According to figure from the Energy Saving Trust , gas and electric oven use the same amount of energy unit , in the 200s of kWh per year , but the much high price of electricity compare with gas make electric oven far more expensive to run . On average , gas oven cost around 9 a year to run , whereas electric oven cost around 44 a year , so instal a gas oven give you an annual saving of 35 . Related Articles Do n't want a Green Deal loan ? Get cashback instead 29 Jun 2013 Five best way to save money on energy bill 29 Jun 2013 Will the new food label scheme get the green light ? 28 Jun 2013 SSE price rise : When will rest follow ? 10 Oct 2013 Ten energy-saving tip you have n't hear before 16 Oct 2012 Cheapest energy deal : be a fix or variable rate well ? 02 Jul 2013 Experts have also warn that over the long-term , the cost of electricity will rise more quickly than that of gas because of the green tax be add to the former . Consumer Futures ( formerly Consumer Focus ) , an official body which analysis the impact policy change will have on consumer in regulate market , recently publish a report on the issue . It say household reliant on electric heating would see their typical bill rise by 282 by 2020 . This be because the cost of energy efficiciency policy fall largely on electricity customer . Such initiative include the Electricity Market Reform ( EMR ) - investment in the network - and Renewables Obligation , where household with solar panel and other energy generation device be subsidise by other electricity customer . The scheme will have cost an estimate 4.8bn by 2020 . Consumer Futures call for intervention to protect the most vulnerable customer from unfair additional cost . It 's another reminder of why gas be wiser than electric when it come to cook cost . There be other factor to consider . A microwave , for instance , can offer a cheap way to cook than by oven , and sometimes cheap than a hob . Halogen ovens ( picture below ) also make bold claim about the amount of energy they save . They can roast a chicken in 30 minute and use 75pc less electricity than a conventional electric oven . When you combine this low use of power with the 50pc faster cook time , the saving could , in theory , be reasonable . - 'Is it cheap to keep my boiler on low or turn it off ? ' - Do n't forget you can save by switching supplier : Check tariff Telegraph Switching Service Telegraph Digital Switching Telegraph Energy Switching Find the best broadband , TV and home phone deal for you See the best gas and electricity deal and switch online Compare now Compare now Household bill Energy Personal Finance Money save tip Earth Energy In Household bill The device quietly run up your energy bill How to save '240 a year ' with LED lightbulb The legal way to avoid pay the TV licence fee Can I save 300 a year with a wood burn stove ? Compare energy price Read more Personal Finance News Young Britons aspire to financial independence by age 23 Nearly half of young people want to be financially independent by 23 - but official data show how few achieve that Comments How I book a top hotel , but be send to a hostel Consumer Affairs Editor Dan Hyde uncovers a glitch in holiday book website Skyscanner Comments Martin Lewis : 10 step to save 1,000s on your mortgage The Moneysavingexpert have a particular system for cutting the cost of buy a home Comments Green Deal : Beat the rush to 'free cash ' - and how long will it last ? Follow these step to maximise your chance of secure 5,600 worth of 'free cash' Comments Mapped : the best place to live in England and Wales Find out how desirable the area you live in be . The Telegraph have rank all 7,137 area use economic , health , and crime statistic Comments 1.5pc cash Isa now pay 10 monthly bonus HSBC be reward it current account customer with a monthly bonus of 10 if they also take out it cash Isa , which pay 1.5pc Comments I 'm a first-time buyer . Should I wait for the new discounted starter home ? Aspiring homeowner who want to put down root could be good off wait for the Government scheme Comments First-time buyer leave '77,000 ' out of pocket If house price have increase at the same rate a income , first-time buyer would be pay 40pc less for a property Comments Do I need a pension when I 've get five buy-to-let property ? Christine Osborne have two property in Bulgaria . Should she sell ? Will her web business provide for her retirement ? Comments One of Britain 's best fund picker name Isas for first timer Gary Potter , one of Britains big fund buyer , name four fund a first time investor should consider buying Comments Advertisement How we moderate telegraphuk Please enable JavaScript to view the comment power by Disqus . blog comment power by Disqus Advertisement Cheapest Gas & Electricity Deals Advertisement More from the web Loading Advertisement More from The Telegraph Loading SPONSORED FEATURES Driven by Adventure Watch the Brownlee brother in a kayak race View Cathay Pacific Is your company trading with Hong Kong or China ? Read on View Best of Australia Australias top 10 wildlife encounter View Money Transfers Is this the end of foreign exchange through bank ? View Back to top HOME Finance Financial Crisis Debt Crisis Live Markets Banks and Finance City Diary Economics Transport Media and Telecoms Energy Retail News Personal Finance Your Business Investing Savings Student Finance Jobs Job Search Companies China business Money Deals Money Transfers Comment Alex Find an IFA Contact Us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015 Terms and Conditions Today 's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast 