What 's the green way to shave ? Slate Sign In Sign Up What 's the green way to shave ? Slate Sign In Sign Up Slate The Green Lantern Illuminating answer to environmental question . Dec. 28 2010 12:09 PM Trimming Your Carbon Footprint What 's the green way to shave ? By Brian Palmer Are all those disposable razor bad for the earth ? My friend be always argue about the relative merit of electric and disposable razor . All the debate over closeness of shave , maintenance , and the ability to do one 's grooming while stuck in traffic be wear me out , so I 'm put my decision in Mother Earth 's hand . Which kind of razor be well for the environment ? Ah , one of the great dude debate . Right up there with boxer vs. brief and The Godfather v . Billy Madison . Sure , groom enthusiast have a plethora of shave option , from single-blade to safety razor , but for most men the choice come down to disposable versus electric . After a column on menstruation and another declaring woman the greener sex , it 's about time the Lantern tackle a male-centric conundrum . Here we face a classic environmental conundrum : Is it good to buy a more energy-intensive manufacture product that can provide year of reliable service or to keep replacing cheap , low-energy disposable . We 've be in this territory before . Glasses or contact ? Books or an e-reader ? Advertisement Let 's start with the energy you 'll use a a consumer . Most of the energy consume while shaving with a disposable go toward heating the water . Unless you 're some kind of shaving Jedi , you 'll probably use at least a quart of hot water for your daily grooming session . It take approximately 0.04 kilowatt-hours to heat that much water from ground temperature to 123 degree , a comfortable level for shaving , so your hot water would cost you 10.4 kilowatt-hours annually , if you shave five time per week . Electric shaver vary widely in their energy consumption , but they often run between five and six watt . That amount to roughly 0.35 kilowatt-hours of electricity each year , if it take you 15 minute to dry-shave before work . The electric shaver come out on top by a 30-to-1 margin in term of energy use by the consumer , but that 's just one piece in the overall puzzle . You 'd also want to consider the carbon dioxide generate during the product 's design , manufacture , transport , and disposal . Unfortunately , none of the major electric shaver manufacturer have be forthcoming with this sort of information , so we 'll have to make some assumption and do some reverse-engineering . According to a report ( PDF ) by WRAP , a U.K.-based sustainability advocacy organization , approximately 40 percent of an electric toothbrush 's lifetime energy consumption come during the consumer-use phase . An electric shaver likely have a similar profile , since the two product use approximately the same material , in the same volume , and require about the same amount of electricity during use . ( The toothbrush run a slightly high wattage for a shorter time . ) Most electric shaver come with a two-year warranty ( PDF ) . Let 's charitably assume that your unit will last twice that long . Over the course of four year , you 'll burn through 1.4 kilowatt-hours of electricity . If that represent 40 percent of the shaver 's energy consumption , that mean design , manufacture , transport , and disposal will add on 2.1 kilowatt-hours , for a total four-year consumption of 3.5 kilowatt-hours . Generating kilowatt-hour of energy release an average of 1.297 pound of carbon dioxide , so keep your face smooth electrically be responsible for roughly 1.13 pound of CO 2 per year . So how do that compare with the disposable ? It depend a little on which disposable you choose . BIC estimate that it take 43 gram ( PDF ) that 's 0.095 poundsof carbon dioxide to make one Ecolutions shaver , one of the few product for which a life-cycle assessment be available . Assuming you can squeeze 10 shave out of a disposable , a BIC say you can ( PDF ) , your razor would be responsible for 2.5 pound of CO 2 equivalent every year . Adding in the 13.5 pound of carbon dioxide you need to heat your water , that brings your total annual bill to 16 pound of CO 2 . Choosing a less-green disposable will magnify your razor 's manufacturing impact , but it wo n't change the overall picture very much . BIC say it product beat out other model by 59 percent ( PDF ) , which would place the average disposable 's annual CO 2 total at about 6.1 pound . But that change would only represent a 22 percent increase in overall shaving impact , since the hot water really drive the equation . After a healthy bit of conjecture , the electric shaver beat the more eco-friendly disposable by a margin of 14.9 pound of carbon dioxide . So what do that annual difference represent ? Driving your car for about 16 mile or run a compact fluorescent light bulb for 47 minute . It would take more than 350 year of shave with a disposable instead of an electric to account for the annual greenhouse gas emission of a single cow . In other word , do n't sweat it . Electric shaver do trump disposable when it come to the landfill . Every year , Americans toss out 2 billion disposable razor . That 's a pretty big pile of metal and plastic entering the waste stream . Most of them ca n't be recycle , because they 're dangerous to disassemble and no individual municipality produce enough of them to make collection cost efficient . Electrics be usually power by nickel-metal hydride battery , which be recyclable in most place and be less toxic than lithium or nickel cadmium rechargeables . You 'll still need to take them to a drop-off site , butlet 's face ityou 're probably head to Home Depot , Target , or Wal-Mart sometime this month , anyhow . While your choice of razor can make a slight environmental difference , the bad thing you can do be shave in the shower , a sin that can be commit with a disposable or a waterproof electric . Shaving for 10 minute with a typical 2.5 gallons-per-minute shower head , you 'd waste more than 24 gallon of hot water , 4.1 kilowatt-hours of electricity , and 5.3 pound of carbon dioxide in your warm , misty tub . It would take less than three day of shave to account for the energy you 'd use by shaving in the sink for an entire year . If 14.9 pound of carbon dioxide keep you up at night , but you do n't want to break any world record for grooming delinquency , there be a couple of odd-ball antique product you might consider . Some clever manufacturer offer hand-cranked razor and unit that work by rolling across your face , like a manual lawn mower . If you demand a closer shave than an electricor a facial-lawn-mowercan provide , turn to the old-fashioned straight-blade razor . You 'll still have to rely on water , but a good blade will last for year , and you can even get one secondhand . Plus , your nattering friend will bow to your barbershop cred . Like Slate on Facebook . Follow u on Twitter . Brian Palmer write about science , medicine , and the environment for Slate and Earthwire . Email him at explainerbrian @ gmail.com . Follow him on Twitter . REPRINT PRINT EMAIL Load Comments Powered by Livefyre News & Politics Politics March 5 2015 4:48 PM The NRAs New Low The gun right group just take a personal swipe at Gabby Giffords . Alec MacGillis Why the Wisconsin State Legislature Is Scott Walkers Secret Weapon The Only People Who Will Suffer if the Supreme Court Limits Obamacare Live in Red States The Long History of Black Americans Arming Themselves in Self-Defenseand Why We Ignore It Will the Logic That Gutted Obamacare in 2012 Save It This Time ? Fergusons Police and City Officials Are the True Criminals Dzhokhar Tsarnaevs Defense Attorney : It Was Him Obamacare Arguments at the Supreme Court Were Silly , Bombastic , and Condescending Business Moneybox March 5 2015 5:17 PM McDonalds Is Finally Phasing Out Antibiotics in Chicken . Thank Chipotle . Alison Griswold Kroger Is Coming After Whole Foods in the Fancy Quinoa Business The World Is Running Out of Places to Store All of Its Oil Thanks to Government Uncertainty , the Wind Energy Business Is About to Stop Growing Theres Nothing Quaint About Etsys IPO Ringling Brothers Says It Will Stop Using Elephants in Its Circus Act After Years of Animal-Abuse Allegations All Hail Austin , Texas , the Boomingest Big City of All Just Over Half of Americans Want Congress to Fix Obamacare if the Supreme Court Wrecks It Life Outward March 5 2015 2:50 PM Floridas Vicious Anti-Trans Bathroom Bill Easily Survives Its First Vote Mark Joseph Stern Wellesley Is Right to Admit Transgender Women . Womens Colleges Should Be for All Women . These Okinawan Beaches Have Star-Shaped Sand Sex Tapes and Silly Questions : U.K . Authorities Routinely Humiliate LGBT Asylum Seekers Whats It Like to Be LGBTQ in Greece Study Finds Students Give Lower Ratings to Asian Professors . Is Racism to Blame ? Mark Twains Memory Builder Game Will ( Probably Not ) Help You Learn Historical Dates Why Do People Steal Palm Trees ? Double X The XX Factor March 5 2015 4:31 PM Catholic Bishops Want to Deny Raped Migrant Girls Access to Health Care Amanda Marcotte How Evangelicals Took Sex Trafficking From Feminists and Made It a Christian Cause Clbre This Gender Discrimination Trial Reveals the Subtle Way Sexism Happens in Silicon Valley Unintended Pregnancy Is Expensive . For Taxpayers . There Are More Men Named John Than Women Running Large Companies CPS FindsFree Range Parents Responsible for Unsubstantiated Child Neglect . Now What ? How Barbara Mikulski Transformed the Senate Why Do Poor Women Have More Abortions ? Slate Plus Plus Roundups March 5 2015 11:29 AM What We Like Right Now Our favorite pick for the week of March 2 , curated by Slate writer and editor . Why Its Wrong to Fondle Fido Gabfest Bonus Segment : Why Parks and Rec Was a National Treasure I Was a Slate Commenter ; Now Im a Slate Writer . Ask Me Anything . Walking Dead Podcast Early Release : Episode 12 , `` Remember '' Arts Television March 5 2015 4:58 PM Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt Netflixs new Tina Fey comedy may be the new 30 Rock with an even big heart . Willa Paskin The Trailer for the Next Gillian Flynn Movie Looks Like Gone Girl Meets Serial Elena Ferrantes Paris Review Interview Finally Convinced Me to Stop Caring Who She Really Is MoMAs Bjrk Show Is a Disaster Are Edible Coffee Cups Really a Good Idea ? I Made Some to Find Out . Spoiler Special : House of Cards Season 3 Hanya Yanagihara in Conversation With Her Editor Technology Future Tense March 5 2015 6:21 PM If You Thought the Net Neutrality Debate Was Resolved , You Were Impressively Optimistic Lily Hay Newman Could Immersive Virtual Reality Tech Solve World Problems ? I Tried to Watch CSI : Cyber , I Really Did A Crazy Experiment Attempts to Document Change With a Photo Taken Over 1,000 Years Netizen Report : China Continues to Crack Down on Virtual Private Networks A New Approach to Education Technology Takes Emotions Into Account How Technology Is Changing Our Choices and the Values That Help Us Make Them Health & Science Bad Astronomy March 5 2015 1:49 PM Four Planets Await After Sunset Phil Plait Pregnant Women Have a Right to Work , and That Right Is Often Trampled On Galaxy on the Edge If You Shake With Someone , Do You Sniff Your Hand Afterward ? Thinking About God Makes People More Willing to Take Risks Google Updates Health Page Results to Promote Vaccination Rosetta Dips Close to a Comet and Spots Its Shadow Sports Sports Nut Feb. 26 2015 7:41 PM Game , Set , and ( Fixed ) Match Pro tennis have a match-fixing problem in it low rank . Ben Rothenberg Whats the Hardest Shot in Bowling ? Its Not the 7-10 Split . Has ASU Discovered the Holy Grail of Free-Throw Distraction ? How John Wall Became the Most Entertaining Player in the NBA Dean Smiths Political Approach to Being a Coach Is Missed Now More Than Ever Why Handballs World Championship in Qatar Should Worry World Cup Fans Seattle Didnt Throw Away the Super Bowl . The Patriots Won It . Slate Sign In Sign Up Most Read 1 . The NRAs Mocking Tweet of Gabby Giffords Is a New Low 2 . Help ! Im Dating a Much Shorter Man . Should I Warn People ? 3 . If Wes Anderson Directed X-Men 4 . Obamacare Arguments at the Supreme Court Were Silly , Bombastic , and Condescending 5 . Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt May Be the New 30 Rock With an Even Bigger Heart Most Shared 1 . That Photo of a Weasel on a Flying Woodpecker Is Real . Heres How The Photographer Got the Shot . 2 . The Gun Deaths of Two Children in Houston Werent Accidents . They Never Are . 3 . The Legend Is True : Prince Was a Basketball Star ( and He Had an Epic Afro ) 4 . Benjamin Netanyahu Is a Bully and a Hypocrite 5 . Netanyahu Just Did Obama a Big Favor House of Cards : the Sitcom FOLLOW SLATE SLATE ON IPAD IPHONE ANDROID KINDLE REPRINTS ADVERTISE WITH US ABOUT US CONTACT US WORK WITH US USER AGREEMENT PRIVACY POLICY FAQ FEEDBACK CORRECTIONS Slate be publish by The Slate Group , a Graham Holdings Company . All content 2014 The Slate Group LLC . All right reserve . Slate Sign In Sign Up Slate Sign In Sign Up 