Top 17 Complaints and Reviews about Com Ed Menu Consumer Affairs Consumer News Consumer Resources Write a review Search dive Log in Com Ed Illinois Home > Homeowners > Utilities Are you this business ? Learn about ConsumerAffairs for Brands ! Overall Satisfaction Rating 1.75 /5 Based on 8 rating out of 17 review 5 star 1 13 % 4 star 0 0 % 3 star 0 0 % 2 star 2 25 % 1 star 5 63 % show rating distribution Compare Utility Companies Research top Utility Companies recommendation on ConsumerAffairs Compare Companies Tell u about your experience with Com Ed : write a review Record a review about your experience with Com Ed : Login to record a Review Tell u about your experience with Com Ed : write a review Share this page facebook twitter google+ email link Consumer Complaints & Reviews 17 Consumer Complaints and Reviews 17 Complaints Filter by : see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars see all Most Helpful 5 Stars 4 Stars 3 Stars 2 Stars 1 Stars STEPHEN of Machesney Park , IL on Aug. 16 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Com Ed switch me to email ( e-billing ) without my permission and without me request it . Then I do not get any email for bill for 4 month ! ! ! Although they state that they do send email bill ... . I do pay in full for the 4 month and they do refund the `` late '' fee . I then switch to Starion Energy for the energy cost and I will save about $ 25 per month for the next 6 month ... So Com Ed 's profit will go down ! ! ! ! They should not have lie to me ! ! ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jacqueline of Chicago , IL on Aug. 10 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating Integrys Energy Services Inc have be provide my energy since . I do nothing and it change from Com Ed to Integrys . I allow this change to occur because I understand that it would be less expensive than Com Ed . But Com Ed 's delivery charge have increase by 38 % from May to August 2014 . In May 2014 , Com Ed charge $ 15.06/month for delivering electricity to my home ; in August 2014 , Com Ed charge $ 20.75 . This be quite a consumer rip-off . Now who do I change to for my energy ? Is Com Ed allow to increase it delivery charge a it lose customer to other energy supplier ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Alyce of Dolton , IL on July 2 , 2014 Satisfaction Rating My electric service with ComED have be out since 6-30-14 . I call again on 7-2-14 still no ETA . ComED say we wo n't bill you for the day you be out of service . You should not bill me ! ! Then they say we be not responsible for your spoil food , but you be responsible for me have electric service . Me losing my food mean day maybe we wo n't have anything to eat or barely have it . ComEd be out of touch with the importance of have electric service . I be also tell they do n't have that many worker ! ! Way to go ComED ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Rebecca of Illinois , IL on Jan. 10 , 2013 Satisfaction Rating I enter into a deferred payment plan in December . On 1/8/2013 , I receive my next bill that be due on 1/9/2013 and a disconnect notice for 1/14/2013 . When I phone Com Ed , they state that there be nothing they could do . I can not pay the bill until 1/18/2013 . I be told that Com Ed can not give extension and there be again nothing that they can do . I can not believe that my electricity will probably be turn off on Tuesday , 1/15/2013 . I can pay the whole amount on 1/18/2013 , but Com Ed do not care . I can not understand how they can do this . With this economy , they can harm people because they be a monopoly and we have nowhere to turn . I be so scar . How do I tell my son he will have to live for 3 or more day in the cold with no heat or electricity ? Because when I pay the bill , they can take any amount of time to turn back on my electricity . Please , someone help me understand how this can happen over the difference of pay a bill four day after the date on the bill . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Carol of Chicago , IL on July 31 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating I live in a small five-unit condo building . Since late May , resident notice a noxious odor in the elevator and lobby . We investigate the elevator shaft and remove some standing water from the elevator shaft which we assume be cause the problem . But the odor continue . On July 30 , our elevator maintenance man be service the elevator and notice the strong odor come from the fifth floor unit . We discover no electricity in the unit , dead fly , maggot on the kitchen floor and rot food in the refrigerator . There be no tag on the meter in the basement and no notification that the electricity have be disconnect . I call Com Ed at approximately 11:00 and be tell 3rd party guideline prohibit them from notification of a disconnect . I question if this be the policy in a multiple unit building where the health and safety of other Com Ed customer be impact by the disconnect . When I return home at approximately 3:30 , I notice that the disconnected meter be now miraculously tag ! Clearly , the service person who make the initial disconnection back in May or April fail to comply with guideline thus compromise the health and safety of every resident in this building . Who know the level of airborne bacteria that have be develop in three month ? In addition to health concern , resident have now incur the cost of a bio hazard clean-up because Com Ed service personnel fail to tag disconnect service . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Michael of Naperville , IL on June 29 , 2012 Satisfaction Rating I move into an apartment that have no electricity . Before I move in , I call ComEd and transfer my service from my condo to the new place . Two month late , I get a bill for over $ 3,000 . They tell me it be backdate billing . I complain and they say they would investigate . They then tell me it be up to me to find out who live there before I move in . I tell them I be n't an investigator . They say they would investigate again . They never get back to me . Plus , the landlord start make payment on a bill under my name , even after I request to have my name take off the bill . Then they send this bill to collection ! They never investigate or contact me after several call , a fax and 2 letter . When I call , all they say be it will be investigate . This be from Jan 2010 . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Shirley of Chicago , IL on Oct. 25 , 2011 Satisfaction Rating ComEd just send me two consecutive bill , both date within a day of each other , for $ 300.00 a piece . This balloon-bill estimate monthly charge that date back to January of 2011 . Now , I owe them almost $ 700.00 in the next three week . I live in an apartment . In the past year , no one from ComEd have contact me for a meter reading . Now , I be be attack with this bill for an entire year of service . Additionally , they send me a compound bill , two bill only a day apart , so it look like I do not pay the previous ( first bill sent ) . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Dianne of Berwyn , IL on Sept. 29 , 2011 Satisfaction Rating Last year , Com Ed put a smart meter on my home . Since then , my bill have go sky high . I have a severe medical condition . When I try to call Com Ed several time , the customer service people be rude and tell me nothing they can do . Also , since the meter have be in , my child have be get sick with nausea , headaches , stomach problem and myself also . My medical condition have get bad . What can I do about this meter and have it take out ? add your response Helpful ? Yes No Donald of Chicago , IL on April 8 , 2011 ComEd overcharge me for service , they receive a LIHEap Payment to pay for my bill while I be with them . They tell me that I will not have a bill for five month due to the credit on my account and only after five month they would put me on a payment plan . When I cancel service after 4 month , which be within the credit and move from the residence , ComEd still send me a bill in the amount of $ 321.86 for the studio apartment unit . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Andrew of South Holland , IL on March 14 , 2011 I have be try to establish service at my new residence since December 15 . I call ComEd to establish their service and I be told I have to take my ID into a currency exchange in Dolton , IL on Michigan Rd to fill out the application and show my ID with my address on it . Once doing so , I should receive a number to call back to ComEd with . Needless to say the currency exchange do not give any number out . I proceed to call the light company back on December 23 to see if I be able to establish service . They tell me that I need to give them a week and to call back . I call back after the new year and be still unsuccessful at get my service establish . So I ask my mother to phone them . She phone them and be tell to call the currency exchange to get the number . Well the currency exchange state that they do not give any number out and they do not understand why ComEd be tell the customer such . So it 's now March and needle to say I still have no service establish . My mom be able to get through again to someone last week and she be told I have to go to another currency exchange to show my ID , this time in Markham , IL on Dixie Hwy . I go there and once again they do not give out a number ! So now it have be 3 month and I have not receive a light bill from ComEd . At which whenever I do establish service my bill will be extremely high for me to pay 3 month at one time . I would appreciate if you all can file this complaint on my behalf . I be a college student and just start off in life of my own and can not afford all this hassle to establish light service in my name . Thank you . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Melanie of Wilmette , IL on Dec. 31 , 2010 Ms. ** charge fee and past due fee for service over ten year ago , promise they would not charge the old bill all the time . They would n't respond to any phone call or because of my racial background , they make instigate misunderstanding with me and them while try to discuss the bill . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Sharon of Chicago , IL on Dec. 4 , 2010 My payment amount have nearly quadruple . My average monthly bill be between $ 53 to $ 69 more or less . As a matter of fact , my October bill be $ 53.98 . So of course I be shock when I receive my November bill of $ 224.10 . When I call ComEd to inquire about this amount , I be told that the amount be a result of an October meter read and my billing prior to the read be estimate . Because my meter be unavailable for a read several month prior , ComEd determine that I be underbilled base on the October meter read . I really do n't understand , but I accept this explanation . However , I assume that subsequent billing would reflect a more reasonable amount but I assume wrong . If this be simply a meter read issue , ComEd could have contact me to get a meter read . Further , if my meter be read in October without my knowledge , ComEd could have use the same practice several month prior . It be what it be . Companies be impose arbitrary rate increase and justify it with crappy explanation . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Joseph of Arlington Heights , IL on Oct. 29 , 2010 On Friday afternoon 10/29 , Com Ed cut off our service for non payment . We immediately call to and pay $ 600 of the $ 1,000 balance but they still would not restore service and demand payment in full . We offer another credit card to pay the entire bill but then be tell that they would only accept one payment by phone per day and instruct u to go to a currency exchange to pay the balance if we have any hope of get the electric restore by 6pm , which be the late time they could possibly accommodate , but we would most likely have no power until Monday 11/1/10 . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Jamie of Rockford , IL on Sept. 17 , 2010 With ComEd , my electric bill be only $ 40 - $ 45 monthly . The delivery charge be $ 22.09 on top of tax which be only $ 3.11 . My complaint be that we consumer should not have to pay with half our bill be just in delivery charge , so my total bill be $ 70 and $ 22 of that $ 70 be just in delivery service charge . I think it 's crazy that we have to pay that much just in delivery charge for the electric to get to u ! What really upset me be that there 's no other company to switch to or compete with ComEd . Someone need to step in and do something about this delivery service charge that have triple that ComEd be get away with . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Maria of Chicago , IL on May 14 , 2010 The electric company for Chicago , IL have hike up out monthly bill without any notice or proof of increase electricity usage . When ask to have a worker come to our home and read the usage meter they decline and say our monthly bill will continue to be more than 50 % above previous bill for that past 20 year . Our monthly bill have average the amount of $ 30- $ 45 and month for the past 23 year . Now the bill have hike to over $ 100 dollar a month without any proof of increase usage . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Susan of Oak Park , IL on May 11 , 2010 I contact Com Ed to have them explain a charge on my bill . The bill state that I have a previous balance of $ 320.63 ; total payment of $ 450.00 ; the amount due for April 23 , 2010 be $ 124.00 . The total current charge for 3/4/10 to 4/1/10 be $ 40.46 . My April KWH usage be 261 . I want the CS person to explain why I have a bill for $ 124.86 . She go all the way back to November 09 with my payment and bill and try to explain the bill in several different way and how this could add up . Every time she try to explain it and add it up , it never equal $ 124.86 . Still my previous balance be $ 320.63 and total payment be $ 450.00 . This mean that there be an over payment of $ 129.14 . So why do I owe $ 124.14 ? I be on the phone with her for an hour . After 40 minute I ask for a manager . I be put on hold several time for long period of time . The CS person still try to explain this bill and it do not add up . After an hour I ask again for a manager and Beverly ( a trainer ) get on the phone . I ask if she be a manager ; she say no and that she be a trainer help the CS person out . I ask her to speak with a manager and she tell me they could put in a request and it would take 72 hour before a manager would call me back . I have a bill to shut off my service for $ 124.86 and they can not explain why . add your response Helpful ? Yes No Anvar of Chicago , IL on April 27 , 2010 Com Ed charge $ 2.17 for electricity supply and for delivery service , $ 10.38 ! Total of $ 13.14 . It 's just a robbery that may be regard a economic damage , especially when I 'm unemployed and get help pay for electricity from LIHEAP ! add your response Helpful ? Yes No Com Ed Company Profile Basic Information Company Name : Com Ed Website : www.comed.com Home Brands Blog About Us FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your use of this site constitute acceptance of the Terms of Use . Advertisements on this site be place and controlled by outside advertising network . ConsumerAffairs.com do not evaluate or endorse the product and service advertise . See the FAQ for more information . Partner with ConsumerAffairs for Brands If your company have a page on our site , we invite you to sign up for a Starter Account today to respond to your customer directly . Alternatively , you may call u at 1-866-773-0221 . For more information , see about u , FAQ and privacy policy . The information on this Web site be general in nature and be not intend a a substitute for competent legal advice . ConsumerAffairs.com make no representation a to the accuracy of the information herein provide and assumes no liability for any damage or loss arise from the use thereof . Sentiment Analysis power by Netbase Copyright 2015 Consumers Unified LLC . All Rights Reserved . The content of this site may not be republish , reprint , rewritten or recirculated without write permission . Connect with u Contact u Sign up for our consumer newsletter Sign up Write a review Home Consumer News Consumer Resources Log in Connect with u Loading Had an experience with Com Ed ? Tell Everyone ! Or record a review about your experience with Com Ed : Login to record a Review Com Ed I 'm with the company We do n't currently support customer response to review , but you be welcome to write a review and share your experience . Record a video review 