You Have The Power : : Conservation At Home A Home Energy Primer : Conservation , Efficiency , and Solar By Walter Simpson , UB Energy Officer Strategies for reduce energy waste , improve energy efficiency , and cut your home energy bill by 50 % or more . Plus some idea on how to increase your use of clean renewable energy . Saving Energy on Lighting Saving Energy on Heating Saving Energy on Appliances and Electronics Saving Energy on Hot Water Saving Energy on Cooling Meeting Heating Needs with Passive Solar Meeting Electrical Needs with Renewable Energy Saving Energy on Transportation Saving Energy through Other Lifestyle Measures Saving Energy on Lighting Turn off light when not in use . Use switch or occupancy sensor to turn off light . Occupancy sensor might be a particularly good option for control outdoor light that be previously leave on all night for security purpose . Walter Simpson 's Rule of Lighting : `` At any give time , it be generally possible to walk around your house and turn off half the light without anyone even notice . '' Rely on daylight whenever you can . Keep blind open during the day to let sunlight in . Switch off electric lighting . Use more efficient lamp and fixture . Incandescent light bulb be little electric heater . 95 % of the energy they consume be coverted directly to heat . Only 5 % become light . Fluorescent lamp be four to five time as efficient a incandescent light bulb . Replace incandescent light bulb with compact fluorescent lamp . Compact fluorescent lamp now come in all shape , size and configuration , and price have drop considerably . Replace incandescent bulb in table lamp , ceiling fixture , and even chandelier . The best incandescent lamp to replace first be those that be generally use every day for the long amount of time . Compact fluorescent lamp last 10 time as long a incandescent light bulb , so compact no long cost more . Over their 10,000 hour lifetime , each compact lamp you install can save you $ 50 in energy cost . Outdoor lighting can also be change to compact fluorescent lamp . Be sure to get the kind make for exterior use so they will start in cold weather . Replace incandescent bulb with linear fluorescent tube and fixture where appropriate . These might make sense in your basement or in your kitchen or office , perhaps hide behind a cove . Note that fixture with small cell parabolic diffuser be the least efficient . Use linear fluorescent fixture with T-8 lamp and electronic ballast . These use 25 % less energy than old fashion T-12 fluorescent lamp and electromagnetic ballast . Disconnect and remove unneeded lamp and fixture . Sometimes a lighting circuit just have too many light on it . Disconnect some to save energy every time the circuit be switch on . Install appropriate light switching . Sometimes one switch turn light fixture on in a very large area ( eg . one switch control all light in a large basement ) . You can save energy by re-circuiting the fixture and instal additional switch so it be possible to turn the light on only where you need them . Top Saving Energy on Heating Weatherize your house or apartment . You can reduce or eliminate cold draft by weather-stripping , caulk , use foam sealant , instal storm window , etc . You can learn how tight your house be with a Blower Door Test that can be administer by an Energy Star certify contractor . The blower door mount in your front door and pressurize your home so it overall `` leakiness '' can be determine and individual air leak can be find and fix . A house that perform at about 0.33 air change per hour be highly energy efficient , but not so tight that indoor air quality become a problem . If your house be tighter than that , you may want to consider an outside air ventilate unit with a heat exchanger to preheat incoming air . Increase insulation level . This be most easily do by adding insulation in the attic and blow insulation into exterior wall . Many house have insulation gap where there be no insulation . These can be at the eve , basement wall or sill plate . Some insulate be easily do by the homeowner . Home energy performance contractor specialize in insulating almost any type of home . Proper vapor barrier and vent technique should be follow to avoid mositure build-up problem . Different type of insulation be available - some have high R-value or insulate value than others , some be more suit to certain application than others . Super-insulating technique exist , which involve reconstruction of wall and ceiling to permit extraordinary level of additional insulation . Upgrade windows . Purchase at least Energy Star rat windows . These generally be double glass with a low emissivity coat and fill with argon gas . They have an R-value in the 3.0 range ( high R be good ) . Consider installing high performance windows with R-values in the 5 to 7 range to maximize energy benefit . For window use to passive solar gain , be sure to specify high performance windows with a high Solar Heat Gain Coefficient . These window will prevent heat loss while allow a much sunlight through a possible . Be careful with skylight . Most skylight glass be thermally inefficient and thus the skylight represent a thermal hole in your ceiling or roof ( compare to the much high R-value of attic or ceiling insulation ) . A sun tube might be a slightly well option . Skylights may also introduce direct sunlight into your house in the summer , overheat your house and/or add to the cooling load if you use air-conditioning . If you have a fireplace , make sure it flue damper be close when the fireplace be not in use . Fireplaces tend to be energy wasteful . Even when blaze away , they tend to cool a house by pulling cold air into it to make up for the combustion air leave the chimney . Try setting your thermostat to a cooler temperature during the day . The cooler your house be , the slower it lose heat to the outside and thus the less heating your furnace must do . A one-degree reduction in temperature set will reduce heating energy consumption by 3 % . A cooler temperature may be comfortable with a sweater . Program your thermostat for temperature setback at night . When you be out of the house and at night , set it back to 55 degree or cold . Switch to an energy efficient furnace that have a seasonal efficiency of over 90 % . Generally , the extra money you pay for a high efficiency furnace be quickly pay back through energy saving . The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority ( NYSERDA ) provide rebate for high efficiency furnace and other energy improvement make by a certified Energy Star home heating or home improvement contractor . Learn more ! Properly size a new furnace . If you significantly weatherize and improve the insulation level in your house , your old furnace may be too big and thus cycle on and off too much during the heating season . This cycling waste energy . Your furnace should be big enough to heat your house on the cold day and heat your house up in the morning ( from it setback temperature ) in a reasonable amount of time . If it be big than that , frequent cycle will reduce seasonal efficiency . Learn more ! Seal and insulate your home 's heating duct . Keeping the heat in the duct will deliver more of the heat your furnace produce to your living space . Use caution with radiant floor heating . If you be consider radiant floor heating , remember that this type of heating system be unlikely to save energy unless , a a result of have a radiant floor , you operate your house at a significantly low air temperature . If this be not do , a radiant floor heating system may actually use more energy because it thermal mass make it incompatible with night setback . Top Saving Energy on Appliances and Electronics Do n't buy appliance you do n't need ! ( Apologies for the double negative ! ) When buy an appliance , look for the Energy Star label . Always buy the most energy efficient . Your energy dollar saving will easily exceed any extra cost . Learn more ! Turn off your computer when not use it . Leaving your computer on coninuously be wasteful , shortens it life , and will cost you $ 150 a year or more in extra electricity cost . Enable computer power management feature - for your computer , monitor , and printer . These feature will put your computer equipment in a low power `` sleep mode '' when not actively in use . Savings of up to 90 % be possible . When buy a new computer , buy a low energy flat screen monitor . These use about a third of the energy of a conventional CRT monitor . A flat screen monitor be also well on your eye , be much clear and easy to view . Only operate one refrigerator . Avoid having and run a second fridge or freezer . These unit use a lot of electricity and be typically entirely unnecessary . Periodically dust and vacuum the condenser coil under or behind your refrigerator . When operate your dishwasher , use `` water miser '' and `` no heat dry '' setting . Also , do not excessively pre-rinse your dish ( let your dishwasher do the clean ! ) . If you wash dish manually , do n't let the hot water run continuously while you wash . Chose natural gas over electricity for your stove , oven , clothes dryer and water heater . Even with high natural gas price , natural gas be cheap than electricity . Use a horizontal clothes washer . These use a lot less water include hot water . They also spin dry clothes more effectively , so less energy be require to dry them . Wash clothe in warm or cold water instead of hot ; and rinse cold . Modern clothe washer and detergent be design to do a good job on these setting . Try use a clothesline instead of your clothes dryer and let the sun dry your clothes for free . Note that a clothesline will also work in the basement , make the use of your gas or electric clothes dryer unnecessary . If you use a basement dehumidifier , operate it efficiently . Operate only in summer and keep basement door and windows close . Also , set humidistat on the dehumidifier to as high a humidity level a possible , consistent with the suppression of mold growth ( eg . 70 % RH ) . Eliminate `` phantom watt . '' Some appliance and electronic equipment use energy even when they be off . These include TV , VCRs/DVD player , stereo , microwave oven , computer anti-surge power strip , etc . Worst offender may be cable or satellite dish receiver box . Save energy by plugging these device into a conventional power strip and turn them off completely when not in use . Note that TVs may lose station programming if this be do . Energy Star electronic product be design to minimize phantom watt loss . Top Saving Energy on Hot Water Reduce hot water consumption . Use low flow showerhead , take shorter shower , utilize dishwasher water miser setting , and use the cold water wash setting for laundry , etc . Produce hot water efficiently . Purchase a high efficiency natural gas hot water tank or an instantaneous water heater . The latter do not have a storage tank and therefore save energy by not have any stand-by loss . A well-insulated water tank , however , may have minimal stand-by loss . Put an insulating blanket on your hot water tank . Lower the temperature on your hot water heater . During the heating season , let bath water cool in the tub before drain . That way the heat in it will help warm your house and not be lose down the drain . Consider solar hot water heating . Top Saving Energy on Cooling Do n't use air condition system . In Buffalo , summer weather be moderately warm and air condition may not be necessary . If you do need air conditioning , purchase Energy Star rat equipment with the high Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating ( SEER ) . The condenser fan unit should be instal in the shade and on a side of the house other than the west side . Stay cool without air condition . Try open window and rely on cross ventilation , use floor and ceiling fan , keep unwanted sunlight out with blind , shade and awning , add insulation to your attic , and use white shingle on your roof . On really hot day , take refuge in your cool basement . Top Meeting Heating Needs with Passive Solar Passive solar work best in the design of new home - though some of these strategy may be appropriate for renovation of or addition to exist home . Maximize south-facing window to take advantage of sunlight for heating . Use windows with as high a Solar Heat Gain Coefficient a possible to maximize solar gain . Reduce and minimize window and glaze area on other orientation . Make sure solar access be unobstructed . The sun 's arc be low in the sky in the south during the winter month . Unobstructed access mean that direct sunlight will not be block by tree , other building , or other object . Even deciduous tree that shed leave in the winter may significantly block sun . Provide an overhang or shade to block high summer sun from enter the south-facing window . Utilize an open floor plan . This will allow warm air produce by solar gain to migrate through the house without the use of fan . Incorporate thermal mass to moderate temperature swing and store energy . Super-insulate to significantly reduce home heating need . When heating requirement be reduce , the amount of energy derive from sunlight can be a significant fraction of the overall amount of heat require . Top Meeting Electrical Needs with Renewable Energy Reduce electrical need through conservation and efficiency . Employing conservation and efficiency first will reduce the amount of solar electricity that need to be generate or purchase . Consider installation of solar electric photovoltaic panel . These can be `` net-metered '' or `` grid-connected '' so battery be not require . When the PV system generate more electricity than be be use on site , the electric meter run backwards and , in effect , the surplus electricity be sell to the grid at the full retail rate . When the PV output be less than what be be use on-site , the difference be make up by electrical power from the grid . With incentive from NYSERDA , a PV system capable of meeting all the electrical need of the average household might cost $ 10,000 or more . Prices be steadily come down just a the efficiency of PV cell be increase . New PV product be also be develop ( eg . PV shingle ) . Learn more ! Buy green power . As a reult of electrical deregulation , residential and commercial customer of Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation and New York State Electric and Gas can elect to purchase electricity from clean renewable source such a wind , hydro and biomass . Wind energy be generally regard a the clean of these renewable energy source and the one most likely to be far develop in New York if purchase by consumer . A premium price of one to two cent per kilowatt hour be charge for green power . It might add $ 5 to $ 10 to your monthly bill to kick the fossil fuel and nuclear power habit . See our Green Power Buyers Guide . Top Saving Energy on Transportation Walk , bicycle , carpool , and use public transportation whenever possible . Think before you drive and reduce drive mile . Do you need to make this trip ? Do you need to go that far ? Can you consolidate trip to reduce overall driving time and mile ? Drive an energy efficient vehicle . Avoid `` gas guzzler '' ( which tend to be SUVs and other so-called light truck that be not require by law to be as energy efficient a car ) . Look for a family size car that get 30 mile per gallon or more . Some compact car can get 40 mile per gallon or more . Consider getting a hybrid gas-electric vehicle . These can have fuel economy in the 50 to 60 mile per gallon range . Top Saving Energy through Other Lifestyle Measures Simplify your lifestyle and reduce your consumption generally . All product require energy to make , use , or dispose of . A more simple lifestyle may also have other benefit . Look for product make of recycle material . For example , paper product . Recycle and compost . Both of these act save ene 